GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
DECEMBER 18 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL FOR WE BEGIN
I JUST WANT TO MAKE A BRIEF
BRIEF NOTE.
FOLKS WHO ARE IN ATTENDANCE IT
IS A FULL HOUSE TONIGHT AND SO
THERE ARE FOLKS WHO ARE NOT
ABLE TO COME IN TO THE CHAMBERS
DUE TO FIRE MARSHAL
REGULATIONS.
I'VE BEEN ASSURED THAT THEY ARE
ABLE TO HEAR US AND INDEED AS
IS EVERYONE WHO HAS ACCESS TO
THE INTERNET.
BUT THE FOLKS DOWNSTAIRS DO
HAVE A DIRECT CONNECTION.
ALSO NOTE THAT CLOSE COUNCIL
OF OBSERVERS WILL OBSERVE THAT
WE HAVE ADDITIONAL OFFICERS IN
ATTENDANCE TODAY THAT IS NOT
RELATED TO THE PERSONS WHO ARE
IN CHAMBERS NOW OVER THE COURSE
OF THE WEEKEND.
OF COURSE THERE WAS A THREAT AT
A HOUSE OF WORSHIP WHICH
NECESSITATED ITS TEMPORARY
CLOSURE AND WE HERE AT THE
COUNCIL THAT IS TO SAY WE AS
INDIVIDUALS HAVE RECEIVED
COMMUNICATION ONES THAT ARE
UNMISTAKABLY ASSASSINATION
ADJACENT AND AS A CONSEQUENCE
THERE ARE OFFICERS HERE IN
ATTENDANCE TODAY.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY A PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE FROM
I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL
.
>> WHAT ARE THESE CALLED THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH ABSENT CUSTOMER HARRISON
CUSTOMER SONG HERE WE'RE
WATCHING HERE A DENHA HERE
COMES FOR OUTSIDE ONE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE COMES FOR IRE
HERE COMES OF OUR ACKMANN HERE
CUSTOMER BRIGS HERE COMES
MARCANO HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
>> WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA BY COUNCIL I THINK
TAKEN BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL
FAVOR POLL THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATION TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
JUST TO MENTION THAT WE'RE
PLANNING TO HOLD A COMMUNITY
MEETING SOMETIME AROUND THE
MIDDLE OF JANUARY WITH REGARDS
TO THE SPORTS ILLUSTRATED HOTEL
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE AN INTRODUCTION
FROM THE ANN ARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
>> MR. CARPENTER, GOOD EVENING
,MR. MAYOR.
>> MEMBERS OF COUNCIL I'M
SORRY, MR. COVID.
ONE THING I NEGLECTED TO
INDICATE IS THAT IF FOLKS DO
HAVE SIGNS IN THE AUDIENCE,
PLEASE KEEP THEM BELOW SHOULDER
LEVEL KEEPING SIGNS, HOLDING
SIGNS ABOVE SHOULDER LEVEL
BLOCKS PEOPLE BEHIND YOU AND SO
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE ASK
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT IN THE
BACK ROW, PEOPLE IN THE BACK
ROW OF COURSE AND HOLD THEIR
SIGNS ABOVE SHOULDER LEVEL.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CARPENTER.
MY APOLOGIES.
>> NO TROUBLE.
GOOD EVENING, MR. MAYOR.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE BACK WITH
YOU THIS EVENING TO PROVIDE
SOME QUICK UPDATES ON THE STATE
OF THE PUBLIC TRANSIT SYSTEM IN
THE ANN ARBOR AND YPSILANTI
AREA WHEN I FIRST DROPPED BY IN
OCTOBER .
I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
INVITATION.
THE RIDE HAD JUST BEGUN ITS
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT ZERO
EMISSIONS BUSSES.
I'M HAPPY TO SAY WE ARE
CONTINUING THOSE DISCUSSIONS.
WE HAD ROBUST CONVERSATIONS
WITH OUR BOARD IN OCTOBER AND
NOVEMBER.
WE WILL HAVE CONTINUE THAT
CONVERSATION THIS THURSDAY
NIGHT AT OUR BOARD MEETING AT
THE DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR LIBRARY
SIX THIRTY WE WELCOME ANYONE TO
ATTEND MAKE COMMENT.
THEY CAN ALSO DO SO VIRTUALLY
WE EXPECT MORE DISCUSSION AS I
SAY THIS THURSDAY BUT NO
DECISION UNTIL JANUARY.
EXCUSE ME SO ALL COMMENTS ARE
WELCOME.
AS I SAID, WE ALSO HAVE A
ROBUST WEBSITE WHERE PEOPLE CAN
LET US KNOW THEIR THOUGHTS ON
THE PROPOSALS AND THE DIFFERENT
TECHNOLOGIES BEING CONSIDERED.
>> OUR HOPE IS WITH BOARD
APPROVAL STARTING IN JANUARY
THROUGH MARCH WE'LL BE ABLE TO
SUBMIT A GRANT TO THE FEDERAL
TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION PROBABLY
IN LATE MARCH EARLY APRIL AND
HOPING TO HEAR POSITIVE
NEWS FROM THE FDA IN OCTOBER OF
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
IF THAT IS FORTHCOMING THEN
WE'RE ON OUR WAY AND WE CAN
BEGIN HOLDING UP THAT PART
OF THE TWO ZERO PLAN FOR
ELIMINATING EMISSIONS FROM THAT
PART OF THE TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THAT.
IT'S PRETTY MUCH DONE.
IT'S PRETTY MUCH BEEN THE ONLY
THING WE'VE TALKED ABOUT WITH
OUR BOARD SINCE THE LAST TIME I
WAS HERE.
A COUPLE OF OTHER QUICK
ANNOUNCEMENTS OR UPDATES FOR
YOU AS WE UPDATED THE BLAKE
TRANSIT CENTER ABOUT TEN YEARS
AGO HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE'RE MOVING FORWARD TO DO THE
SAME WITH THE YPSILANTI TRANSIT
CENTER NEXT DOOR BEGINNING WHAT
WILL PROBABLY BE A TWO YEAR
ENVIRONMENTAL AND CONCEPTUAL
PLANNING PROCESS AGAIN HOPING
TO THEN WIN COMPETITIVE GRANTS
TO BUILD A LARGER AND MORE
EXCITING BUS TERMINAL FOR THE
CITY OF YPSILANTI.
WE CONTINUE TO WORK WITH THE
ANN ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION ON
THE BLAKE TRANSIT EXCUSE ME THE
THREE FIFTY FIFTH STREET, THE
OLD WILLOTT WE CONTINUE TO WORK
COOPERATIVELY WITH THEM AS A
PARTNER ON THEIR PROPOSAL FOR
THE REUSE OF THAT SITE.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED.
WE'RE ALSO CONTINUING TO WORK
FORWARD TO DELIVER THE SERVICES
THAT WERE APPROVED BY THE
VOTERS HERE IN ANN ARBOR BUT
ALSO YPSILANTI IN YPSILANTI
TOWNSHIP IN AUGUST OF LAST
YEAR.
ALL IS GOING VERY WELL IN THAT
WE'VE HAD GREAT PUBLIC INPUT
FROM THAT PROCESS AND I WANT TO
THANK EVERYONE WHO'S COME OUT
TO OUR MEETINGS FOR THAT.
AND THEN MY LAST COMMENT I WANT
TO THANK AND WELCOME I SHOULD
SAY A FORMER MEMBER OF THIS
BODY TO OUR BOARD, FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER JULIE GRANT.
I BELIEVE YOU GUYS CONFIRMED
HER APPOINTMENT AT YOUR LAST
MEETING.
WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
MEETING HER IN PERSON FOR THE
FIRST TIME THIS THURSDAY.
SO IN CLOSING, AGAIN, WE
WELCOME ANYONE AND EVERYONE TO
OUR BOARD MEETINGS.
THEY ARE IN PERSON AND VIRTUAL
630 P.M. THIS THURSDAY DOWNTOWN
AND OUR LIBRARY TOP.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU, MR. PRESIDENT.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IN ORDER TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACT OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
AND SO WHETHER YOU ARE SPEAKING
HERE AT THE PODIUM OR WHETHER
YOU ARE ON THE ON THE
TELEPHONE, PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
WILL WILL NOTIFY YOU ON THE
PHONE WHEN THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED THE TIME CLOCK HERE
WILL NOTIFY YOU OF SAME IN EACH
CASE WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR TO REFRESH
FOLKS RECOLLECTION.
WE HAVE RESERVED FORTY FIVE
MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT TIME
HERE AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
MEETING WE WILL RUN THROUGH
EITHER THAT FORTY FIVE MINUTES
OR THE FIRST FIFTEEN THE FIRST
FIFTEEN SPEAKERS IF THE FIRST
FIFTEEN SPEAKERS TAKE LESS THAN
FORTY FIVE MINUTES WE WILL GO
ON UNTIL WE REACH THE FORTY
FIVE MINUTE MARK ONCE THAT LAST
SPEAKER HAS HAS PERFORMED
PROVIDED THEIR PUBLIC COMMENT
WE WILL AT THAT TIME PROCEED
WITH THE BALANCE OF THE
BUSINESS MEETING AFTER THE
BALANCE OF THE MEETING HAS HAS
CONCLUDED AFTER THE OFFICIAL
BUSINESS OF THE COUNCIL IS DONE
THAT IS TO SAY THE VOTES AND
THE WORK AND CLOSE SESSIONS TO
REVIEW ATTORNEY ATTORNEY
COMMUNICATION OR SO FORTH.
AT THAT POINT WE WILL RESUME
PUBLIC COMMENT HERE IN CHAMBERS
IN FULL FOR THOSE IN ORDER
AGAIN IF YOU ARE STILL HERE OR
WHETHER YOU ARE ONLINE THE YEAH
I THINK THAT IS ALL.
SO OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ADAM GOODMAN.
ADAM GOOD MINIVAN'S.
>> GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS ADAM GEDMIN
SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THERE.
THE FIFTH WORD TONIGHT I WANT
TO FIRST TOUCH ON THE PROPOSED
REZONING ALONG THE THIRD TTC
ONE.
I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE THIS ON
THE AGENDA TONIGHT.
I WILL AS I SAID IN THE FIFTH
WARD KIND OF NEAR THE STADIUM
CORRIDOR WHICH WAS REZONED TO
TAKE ONE I BELIEVE IT WAS LATE
LAST YEAR.
SO THE FIRST THING TO SAY ABOUT
THAT THE SKY HAS NOT FALLEN.
IF ANYTHING THIS REZONING SEEMS
LIKE IT MIGHT HAVE ACTUALLY
KIND OF AT LEAST IN THE SHORT
TERM SLOWED DOWN PROGRESS
OF DEVELOPMENT ALONG THE
CORRIDOR WHICH IS NOT IDEAL.
BUT I WOULD SAY IT'S OK BECAUSE
ONE FOR ME IS AS MUCH ABOUT
WHAT IT PROHIBITS IS WHAT IT
ENABLES AND WHAT IT PROHIBITS
IS THIS YOU KNOW THAT IT THAT
IT WILL BREAK US OUT OF THIS
DECADES LONG CYCLE OF CAR
DEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT AND STOP
ENABLING DEVELOPMENT THAT
FURTHER ENTRENCH THIS PATTERN.
>> THAT'S REALLY THE FIRST STEP
WE NEED TO TAKE CARE.
IN FACT, I KNOW THAT SOME
OF THE COMMUNITIES ALONG
PLYMOUTH HAD CONCERNS ABOUT A
CAR ORIENTED CREDIT UNION
PROJECT.
THEIR UNFORTUNATELY THIS DC ONE
REZONING DIDN'T COME SOON
ENOUGH TO SAVE THAT SITE FOR A
HIGHER AND BETTER USE.
SO ANYWAY, YOU KNOW I I MY ONLY
COMPLAINT ABOUT THIS IS THAT
IT'S TAKEN LONGER THAN IT
SHOULD HAVE BUT I'M REALLY
HAPPY TO SEE TONIGHT I HOPE
YOU'LL ALL VOTE TO APPROVE BUT
NOT DELAY.
>> ALSO ON THE AGENDA TONIGHT
IS THE CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT
FOR EAST MEDICAL CENTER BRIDGE
REHABILITATION AND WIDENING YOU
KNEW I WAS GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THIS, RIGHT?
CITY COUNCIL RECENTLY ADOPTED A
RESOLUTION CALLING FOR AN END
TO MULTI LANE ROADS.
YET HERE WE ARE WIDENING A ROAD
AT GREAT EXPENSE.
THIS PROJECT PUBLIC POLICY
DISASTER FROM START TO FINISH
AND GOES WAY AGAINST ALL OF OUR
CITIES CLIMATE AND SAFETY
COMMITMENTS.
IT IS ESPECIALLY UNDER A
PREVIOUS COUNCIL WHEN WHEN A
MAJORITY VOTED TO APPROVE
WIDENING THE BRIDGE BY 11 FEET
FOR CARS AND NOT ONE INCH FOR
ANYBODY ELSE.
NOW THANKS TO ACTION OF THIS
COUNCIL, WE NOW HAVE A PLAN
THAT'S NOT QUITE AS EGREGIOUSLY
BAD.
IT CREATES A NEW SPACE FOR BOTH
TYPES OF USE FOR ALL TYPES
OF USERS.
BUT WIDENING THE BRIDGE FOR
CARS STILL DOES RUN ABSOLUTELY
COUNTER TO THE 80S ERA AND FITS
INTO
THE CITY HAS MADE IT NOW
AT THE END OF THE DAY I'M NOT
GOING TO ASK YOU TO VOTE THIS
DOWN TONIGHT BECAUSE I REALIZE
IT WOULD COST THE CITY EVEN
MORE MONEY TO REDO THESE PLANS
AGAIN.
BUT PLEASE PLEASE DON'T EVER
LET A SITUATION LIKE THIS
HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
>> ONE POINT OUT AS A FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER THAT WE HAVE
PEOPLE DOWNSTAIRS AS YOU KNOW
AND WE ALSO HAVE PUBLIC
HEARINGS TONIGHT AND THOSE
PEOPLE WILL NOT HAVE ACCESS TO
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS.
THE TOPIC I'M GOING TO TALK
ABOUT IS THE MEDICAL CENTER
DRIVE.
THIS IS A CRITICAL ROUTE TO THE
EMERGENCY ROOM.
I AM GLAD THAT IT IS MOVING
FORWARD AND WILL HAVE THE
PEDESTRIAN AND CYCLING
AMENITIES THAT ARE NEEDED WERE
NOT ALWAYS AS COMPREHENSIVE AS
WE SHOULD BE.
WE HAVE VERY COMPLEX PROBLEMS
IN THIS COMMUNITY AND IT'S ONLY
HUMAN NATURE TO SIMPLIFY THE
PROBLEM AND THEN SOLVE THAT
SIMPLE PROBLEM AND YOU DON'T
SOLVE THE COMPLEX PROBLEM TO
BEGIN WITH.
AND SO WITH THE E MEDICAL
CENTER DRIVE AT THE NORTH END
IS THE INTERSECTION.
IT'S A VERY LARGE INTERSECTION
WITH FULLER AND IT HAS HAD IN
INADEQUATE LIGHTING FOR MANY
YEARS.
I PUT TICKETS IN AND NOTHING
HAS BEEN DONE NOW WE KNOW BASED
ON THE DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION'S RECENT
REPORT THE SAFETY BENEFITS
OF LIGHTING IT CAN REDUCE
CRASHES UP TO FORTY TWO PERCENT
FOR NIGHT TIME INJURY
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES AT
INTERSECTIONS THAT'S FORTY TWO
PERCENT.
>> HOW MANY PERCENT DO WE SAVE
AND DO WE IMPROVE SAFETY WHEN
WE PAINT GRAY CONCRETE GRAY AT
INTERSECTIONS?
I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE KNOWS BUT
WE DO KNOW THAT IMPROVING
LIGHTING IMPROVES AND REDUCES
CRASHES BY FORTY TWO PERCENT.
SORRY I'M A LITTLE UPSET BUT I
HAVE LIVED THROUGH TOO MANY
PEDESTRIAN FATALITIES IN THIS
COMMUNITY WHILE WE HAVE NOT
ADDRESSED LIGHTING THE OTHER
ISSUE THAT IS THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
I SPOKE ABOUT THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR CORRUPTION BY SETTING THE
CURB RATHER THAN THE LEGAL
PROPERTY LINE AT THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY FOR DETERMINING
THE SETBACK.
WE HAVE BECOME VERY SLOPPY IN
THIS COMMUNITY REGARDING OUR
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
WE PUT OUT HOUSES THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY.
THEY DO NOT ALONG THERE IT IS
IMPORTANT THAT WE REALIZE THAT
PRIVATE CORPORATIONS SUCH AS
THE CONSTRUCTION GLAN THE HOTEL
WHERE WE HAVE THREE LANES
OF TRAFFIC CLOSED OFF DUE TO
CONSTRUCTION CONSTRUCTION
BELONGS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
OTHER THAN FOR TEMPORARY
SPECIAL OCCASION AND PUBLIC
AMENITIES BELONG ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
YOU'LL SEE THAT IN SEIA 10:00
TONIGHT.
WE'VE ASKED FOR AN EASEMENT FOR
A WATER MAIN WE COULD DO THE
SAME THING FOR BUS SHELTERS AND
OTHER PUBLIC AMENITIES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
BRANDON DEMCHUK ZOOM YOU CAN GO
AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS BRANDON DEMCHUK
CALLING IN FROM WEST LARRY,
THANK WORD FOR I'M CALLING TO
BRIEFLY SPEAK IN FAVOR OF ONE
OF THREE ON YOUR AGENDA
TONIGHT.
I WILL KEEP MY COMMENTS ON BOTH
OF THESE BRIEFS.
I HOPE TO SPEAK AT THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS ABOUT THIS ASTEROID.
>> I GREW UP IN THE B SIDE
OF TOWN.
LET ME BEGIN FOR SEVERAL YEARS
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE.
WELL, IT'S A GREAT AREA AND I'D
LOVE TO SEE MORE HOUSING BUILT
THERE FOR PEOPLE TO ENJOY THIS
AREA WHERE I GREW UP.
SO PLEASE TO SEE ONE SO SO WE
CAN GET STARTED ON OBSERVING
CORRIDOR AND ALLOWING US TO SEE
MORE NEIGHBORS THERE JUST LIKE
TO SEE THE PASS ON TO THE
SECOND MOVING TONIGHT SOME
REASON TO BE CURRENTLY FROM THE
SOLAR PANELS AND A LOT
OF PLACES FOR OTHER STRUCTURES
ARE ALLOWED THIS AFTERNOON TO
FIX THAT AND GET OUT MORE
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING IF IT
HAPPENS BUT YOU KNOW, PLEASE
PASS THROUGH SO WE ADD MORE
INFO FOR HELP ACHIEVE OUR EIGHT
TWO ZERO GOALS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC BANA
.
>> ERIC VONAGE AND ZOOM.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I'M CALLING TO VOICE MY SUPPORT
FOR ITEM C1 REZONING OF FIFTY
THREE PARCELS ALONG PLYMOUTH
ROAD TO TORQUAY AS MEASURED
THIS LAST JANUARY ALMOST MISSED
HIT A RECORD HIGH WITH SIX
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
OF OUR FELLOW AMERICANS LIVING
IN SHELTERS OR OUTSIDE IN TENTS
OR IN CARS AND THIS WAS AN
INCREASE OF 12 PERCENT OF THE
YEAR BEFORE PEOPLE ARE
SUFFERING AND THIS IS CLEARLY A
MORAL ISSUE AND IT WAS ABOUT
SECURING OUR OWN HOUSING MAYBE
NOT THE SYSTEM, MAYBE
PARTICIPATING IN HELPING TO
ADDRESS THIS ISSUE.
>> THIS IS A PROBLEM THAT WILL
HAVE TO ADDRESS AS A NATION NOT
ONLY WITH SHORT TERM MEASURES
BUT SETTING THIS UP FOR THE
LONGER TERM AS WELL AND
EXPANDING ATC ONE ZONING HELPS
THOSE OF US IN ANN ARBOR TO DO
OUR PART IN THIS LONGER TERM
ZONING WILL HELP ADD MORE
HOUSING ALONG OUR TRANSIT
CORRIDORS.
YES, THIS IS ASPIRATIONAL AND
WILL TAKE TIME TO BRING THIS
HOUSING TO REALITY.
AND WHILE WE EXPECT MOST
OF THIS HOUSING TO BE MARKET
RATE THROUGH A WELL STUDIED
PROCESS CALLED MIGRATION
CHAINS, MANY OF THOSE MOVING
INTO THIS NEW HOUSING WILL BE
VACATING NEARBY LESS EXPENSIVE
HOUSING CREATING OPPORTUNITIES
FOR THE SOLAR.
OTHERS WILL IN TURN VACATE
THEIR PREVIOUS HOUSING AND SO
ON IN A 2019 PAPER BY EVAN
OF THE UPJOHN INSTITUTE, HE
DESCRIBES HOW HE LITERALLY
FOLLOWED 52000 RESIDENTS A
BRAND NEW MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS
TRACING THOSE REDDIN'S
RESIDENTS BACK TO THEIR
PREVIOUS ADDRESSES, FINDING OUT
WHO CURRENTLY LIVING AT THOSE
ADDRESSES ADDRESSES, TRACING
THEM BACK TO THEIR PREVIOUS
ADDRESSES AND SO ON AND SO
FORTH.
TO QUOTE FROM THE PAPER THIS
SEQUENCE QUICKLY ADDS LOWER
INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS SUGGESTING
THAT STRONG MIGRATORY
CONNECTIONS LINK THE LOW INCOME
MARKET TO NEW CONSTRUCTION.
ADDITIONALLY, THE NEW HOUSING
WE EXPECT TO BE BUILT IN D.C.
ONE WILL ALLOW RESIDENTS TO
HAVE LOWER CARBON FOOTPRINT AND
WILL ALSO HELPS PEOPLE
ACCOMPLISH MANY OF THEIR DAILY
TASKS ON FOOT AND ON BICYCLE.
SO WE ACHIEVE MULTIPLE WINS BY
PASSING ITEMS C ONE I'D LIKE TO
THANK CITY STAFF AND CITY
COUNCIL FOR TAKING THE HOUSING
ISSUE SERIOUSLY AND WORKING
TOWARDS MEANINGFUL CHANGE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MIKE STRUPP
.
MIKE STROBE IF YOU'RE ON ZOOME
PRESS STANADYNE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND
.
>> HI IS MIKE STROOPE
HI GIVING
ME THE MIKE THROUGH THE BARNHAM
LAW FIRM CALLING ON BEHALF
OF ONE OF OUR CLIENTS THE
ALTARUM INSTITUTE ALL ON TWO
PROPERTIES THAT ARE SUBJECT TO
TONIGHT KEEP ONE REZONING
ORDINANCE.
>> THESE PROPERTIES ARE LISTED
AS PROPERTY NUMBER FIFTY AND
FIFTY FOUR ON THE ALTHOUGH I'M
TOLD THAT THERE WAS A VIOLATION
TO THE LIST EARLIER TODAY WHERE
PROPERTY 54 MAY HAVE ALREADY
BEEN REMOVED FROM THE LIST.
>> BUT OUR REQUEST TONIGHT IS
THAT PROPERTIES ARE REMOVED
FROM THAT LIST OF PROPERTY BACK
TO THE REZONING.
OUR REASONING FOR THAT DECISION
NOTED ALTARUM, WAS NOT GIVEN
NOTICE OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S NOVEMBER 1ST
MEETING WHERE THEY RECOMMENDED
THAT THESE PROPERTIES WOULD BE
REZONING.
THEY WERE NOT GIVEN AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
IN OPPOSITION OF THIS AND IN
FACT THE REZONING GOES AGAINST
THEIR PLANS FOR THE PROPERTY.
SO IN SHORT WE REGRET THAT BOTH
PROPERTIES IF THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
ALREADY REMOVED FROM THE THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
,
ALEX LOWE AND ZOOM.
GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING IN
FROM ALL THREE AS AN OPERATOR
WE ARE PRIVILEGED TO HAVE A
COMMUNITY DRAWN FROM ALL OVER
THE WORLD.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST THINGS THAT
DREW ME AS AN IMMIGRANT CHANNEL
THAT IS THAT THE PEOPLE HERE ON
THE WHOLE TRY TO LIVE THE SAME
HUMANIST VALUES THAT I TRY TO
LIVE IN MY EVERYDAY LIFE AS
PART OF THIS IT IS A
FUNDAMENTAL BELIEF OF MINE AND
I HOPE OF EVERYONE IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT EACH AND
EVERY PERSON DESERVES THE BEST
JOB POSSIBLE, THAT A GOOD LIFE
.
THERE ARE MANY WAYS TO EXPRESS
THESE BELIEFS AND SOMETIMES
WHEN WE'RE TRYING TO DO SO WE
MAKE MISTAKES OR FALTER.
BUT IT'S ALL PART OF BEING
HUMAN.
WHAT HAS BECOME CLEAR TO ME IN
THE TIME WATCHING OUR CITY
COUNCIL IS THAT
EACH OF OUR
MEMBERS ON COUNCIL TONIGHT ALSO
STRIDES TOWARDS THIS IDEA AND I
ADMIRE THAT TO LIVE THESE
VALUES AND ANOTHER HAS TO
ACCEPT SOME DIFFICULT FACTS
ABOUT THE WORLD AND TO CHOOSE
HOW TO ACT UPON THEM.
>> ONE OF THESE FACTS IS THAT
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO WANT TO JOIN OUR COMMUNITY.
SOME WILL BE STUDENTS TO COMING
TO STUDY AT YOU THEN OTHERS
WILL BE PEOPLE LIKE MYSELF WHO
CHOOSE TO TO MOVE HERE BECAUSE
OF THE WELCOMING.
>> STILL OTHERS WILL BE LOOKING
TO JOIN OUR COMMUNITY FOR JOB
OPPORTUNITIES OR AS REFUGEES
AND I HOPE THAT AT ALL WELCOMES
EACH AND EVERY ONE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS HAVE MANY WAYS IN WHICH
THEY'RE WORKING TOWARDS THESE
GOALS.
ONE SUCH WAY THOUGH IT MAY NOT
IMMEDIATELY OBVIOUS IS BY THE
PASSING OF ONE THE REZONING
ALONG PLYMOUTH ROCK IF WE WANT
TO WELCOME REFUGEES IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND IF WE WANT TO
STOP PEOPLE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
REMAIN HERE FROM BEING FORCED
OUT OF THE CITY, WE NEED SPACE
FOR EVERYONE TO LIVE.
C1 IS A SMALL STEP IN THAT
DIRECTION AND I HOPE TO SEE AND
TO SEE MORE OF IT BECAUSE WHILE
IT'S A SMALL STEP IT'S NOT IT'S
NOT ENOUGH.
I WANT TO SEE MORE TO SEE ONE
ZONINGS ON FURTHER AREAS
OF PLYMOUTH.
I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT REDUCING
THIS REZONING IS A GOOD IDEA.
I WANT TO SEE THAT.
I WANT TO SEE THE COMMERCIAL
PACKARD AND PRATT RESURGES AS
THAT IS ONE I WANT TO SEE
EVERYWHERE THAT IN THE CITY BE
IMPROVED SO THAT WE CAN MAKE
THIRTY SECONDS BETTER THAN IT
ALREADY IS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS WENDY
LAWRENCE.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT WORDS
ABOUT WHAT THEY MEAN AND ABOUT
HOW THEY'RE MAKING SOME OF US
SCARED.
BUT FIRST MY POSITION I STAND
IN MY HOME TOWN ON THE
ANCESTRAL AND CONTEMPORARY
LANDS OF THE INITIAL NABAY I AM
A WHITE JEW BY CHOICE WITH
FAMILY IN ISRAEL FAMILY HERE
WHO HAD A KNIFE PULLED ON THEM
FOR SUPPORTING THE HOSTAGES AND
A YOUNG FAMILY MEMBER WHO GOT A
TEXT AFTER OCTOBER 7TH THAT A
FRIEND WAS GANG RAPED AND
KILLED BY TERRORISTS IN HER
OFFICE.
I HAVE PROTESTED AND RALLIED IN
LANSING, ANN ARBOR, DETROIT,
TEXAS AND DC IN SUPPORT
OF BLACK LIVES LATINO AND
MUSLIM IMMIGRANT RIGHTS,
ABORTION RIGHTS AND AND TRANS
RIGHTS.
EVERY TIME I MARCHED WITH JEWS
FOR THE PAST FEW MONTHS I FIND
MYSELF IN A SURREAL NIGHTMARE
AS I WATCH ALLIES DISAPPEAR AND
AN INTERNATIONAL GASLIGHTING
FUELED BY WEAPONIZED
VOCABULARY.
>> PROGRESSIVES WHO CLAIM TO
RESPECT INDIGENEITY IGNORE
HISTORICAL AND ARCHEOLOGICAL
EVIDENCE OF JEWISH HISTORY IN
ISRAEL YELLING COLONIZE AS IF
TO MAKE JEWS AN EFFIGY THEY CAN
PUNISH FOR THEIR OWN GUILT
OF LIVING ON STOLEN LAND.
THEY REPEAT AN AGE OLD CALL FOR
JEWS TO ONCE AGAIN BE KICKED
OFF THEIR LAND.
THEY REFER TO ALL JEWS AS WHITE
ORACENE BLACK, BROWN AND MIDDLE
EASTERN JEWS AS WELL AS ALL
THOSE TIMES WHEN EVEN THE WHITE
OF US WERE NOT WHITE ENOUGH TO
BE ALLOWED TO LIVE WHERE IS THE
INTERSECTIONALITY NOW?
THE SILENCE IS JUST AS LOUD
MAKING IT CLEAR THAT ISRAELI
WOMEN DO NOT COUNT MY SUNK LAST
WEEK AT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION WHEN SOMEONE SAID WE
DON'T EVEN WHAT HAPPENED ON
OCTOBER 7TH CAN YOU IMAGINE
THIS IS THE GASLIGHTING AND IT
IS HAPPENING WITH A DAY
OF VIOLENCE THAT WAS FILMED AND
LIVE STREAMED BY THE TERRORISTS
THEMSELVES.
IN OTHER WORDS, I'VE HAD
SHOUTED IN MY FACE ARE THE
RIGHT TO RESIST A EUPHEMISM IN
THIS CONTEXT A RALLYING CRY FOR
TERRORISM RESISTANCE IMPLIES
THAT THE BODIES OF WOMEN FOUND
WITH THEIR PANTS DOWN UNDERWEAR
BLOODY BULLET WOUNDS IN THEIR
GENITALS AND DESERVED IT.
>> IT IMPLIES THAT THE YOUNG
CONCERT GOERS DESERVED TO BE
GUNNED DOWN.
IT IMPLIES THAT TODDLERS
DESERVED TO BE TAKEN HOSTAGE
AND BABIES DESERVE TO BE BURNED
ALIVE BUT ALSO RESISTANCE
IMPLIES THAT THERE'S AN
AUTHORITY TO RESIST AGAINST AND
IGNORES THAT HAMAS AND NOT
ISRAEL HAS CONTROLLED GAZA
SINCE 2007.
>> EVEN THE WORD CEASEFIRE
WHICH WE ALL WANT CONVENIENTLY
FORGETS THAT THERE WAS A CEASE
FIRE IN EFFECT THE MORNING
OF OCTOBER 7TH WHEN HAMAS BROKE
IT WORDS MATTER.
SO CAN WE DIRECT OUR WORDS IN
WORD?
CAN WE TALK ABOUT HOW WE CAN
SUPPORT LOCALS WITH FAMILY AND
ISRAEL IN GAZA?
CAN WE REENGAGE OUR ANTI-RACIST
BOOK CLUBS TO LEARN ABOUT
ISRAEL AND PALESTINE?
CAN WE ADDRESS LOCAL ISLAMIC
PHOBIA AND ANTI-SEMITISM?
CAN WE COME TOGETHER AND TAKE
CARE OF OUR OWN DISPLACED AND
HOUSELESS PERSONS MAYOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS?
I PRAY FOR PEACE IN GAZA AND
ISRAEL AND I PRAY THAT WE HERE
USE OUR FUTURE WORDS TO REBUILD
PEACE HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KEMAL
AGUR
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS COME ON.
GOOD EVENING NABIL FOR MANY
MANY YEARS AND THEY'VE BEEN
HERE FOR YOUR TIMES AND I'M
HERE FOR THE CAUSE OF GAZA AND
PALESTINE AND WHAT HAS BEEN
GOING ON OK ACTUALLY I HAVE A
LITTLE VIDEO TO PLAY FOR YOU
AND THIS IS LIKE A WAKE UP CALL
NOT ONLY FOR ARABS, MUSLIMS FOR
AMERICANS, THE ZIONIST STATE
OF ISRAEL WHEN IT COMES TO
THEIR SURVIVAL THEY WILL
DESTROY HUNGER.
>> EVEN AMERICANS.
THIS IS A VIDEO TALKING ABOUT
WHEN ON JUNE EIGHT NINETEEN
SIXTY FOUR ISRAEL DELIBERATELY
ATTACKED AN AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE SHIP.
THE USS LIBERTY HAD TO BE IN
THE DAY TWO ISRAELI MIRAGE 3S
ATTACK THE LIBERTY WITH
HANNAMAN ROCKETS AND JUST A FEW
MINUTES LATER TWO MYSTERIOUS
DROP NAPALM BOMBS DUE TO WHICH
SHIP CAUGHT FIRE AND THEN AT
TWO THIRTY FIVE PM ISRAELI
TORPEDO BOATS FIRED FIVE
TORPEDOES OUT OF WHICH ONE
STRUCK THIS ATTACK KILLED
THIRTY FOUR CREW MEMBERS AND
WOUNDED ONE HUNDRED SEVENTY ONE
OTHERS.
ISRAEL APOLOGIZED SAYING IT
MISTAKENLY THOUGHT THAT THE USS
LIBERTY WAS AN EGYPTIAN SHIP.
BUT SURVIVORS REJECTED THE
ISRAELI STATEMENT AND CLAIMED
THAT THE ATTACK WAS ON PURPOSE
AND THEY WERE RIGHT BECAUSE
ISRAELIS FIRST IDENTIFIED THE
LIBERTY AS A US SHIP AND ABOUT
FIVE FIFTEEN A.M. THAT MORNING
I SENT ANOTHER RECONNAISSANCE
FLIGHTS ALSO CONFIRMED THE
IDENTITY OF LIBERTY DURING
ATTACK.
THE SHIP ATTEMPTED TO CONTACT
THE SIXTH FLEET BUT ISRAELIS
WERE JAMMING THEIR DISTRESS
FREQUENCIES ACCORDING TO
VICTIMS, A HUGE AMERICAN FLAG
WAS WAVING AT THE TOP OF THE SO
THERE WAS NO CHANCE OF ANY
MISTAKE.
>> SO THE IS WILLING TO KILL
AMERICANS THE BIGGEST AND
NUMBER ONE SUPPORTER FOR THEM.
DO YOU EXPECT THEM YOU'RE GOING
TO SAVE LIVES IN GAZA,
PALESTINE.
THERE IS NO WAY TO SELL THEM
TWO THOUSAND THREE THE AMERICAN
RACHEL CORRIE SHE WAS IN
PALESTINE.
>> SHE IS A HUMAN RIGHTS
ACTIVIST.
SHE IS TRYING TO STOP THE
ISRAELI BULLDOZER.
>> I'M SURE YOU KNOW ALL ABOUT
THIS.
I'M THE ONLY ONE WHO KNOWS YOU
LIVE.
>> YOU WATCH THE NEWS AND YOU
READ AND EVERYTHING.
SO IT'S EITHER YOU KNOW AND YOU
CAN BOMB OR YOU DON'T KNOW AND
THAT'S WHY I'M HERE TO EDUCATE
YOU.
SO RACHEL WAS CRUSHED BY THE
ISRAELI BULLDOZER BECAUSE SHE
WAS TRYING TO STOP THE
BULLDOZER OF DESTROYING THE
OLIVE OIL LAND FOR THE
PALESTINIANS.
YOU KNOW, SHE'S AN AMERICAN
JUST LIKE YOU SAID THEY DIDN'T
KNOW IT WAS AN AMERICAN SHIP
SAY OH, THE DRIVER DID NOT SEE
HER.
SHE WAS LITERALLY 30 YARDS AWAY
FROM THE DRIVER AND YOU HAD THE
BLACK THANK YOU.
NEXT NEXT OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
NOT AS EASY AS HE NEED
.
SPEAKER ASMA AZIMI IS ON THE
PHONE.
>> PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO
RAISE YOUR HAND
PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE NINE IF YOU'RE
ON THE PHONE, PLEASE RAISE YOUR
HAND.
>> PRESS STAR NINE MIR I DON'T
SEE THIS CALLER ON ZOON
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS FOOTBALL
ASSURE
CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO SEVEN
FOUR FOUR STAR SIX ON YOUR
PHONE.
>> GO AHEAD
.
>> PHONE NUMBER HENNINGHAM 074
ON MUTE YOUR PHONE
FADWA I
ASSURE YOU YOU PRESS STAR SIX
YOU CANNOT MUTE YOUR PHONE.
>> CAN I BE HEARD?
YES YOU CAN.
OK, PERFECT.
HELLO AND THANK YOU FOR
ALLOWING
YOU TO CALL AND I AM A
RESIDENT OF WARD TWO AND I JUST
WANT TO SAY TO LOCAL WOMAN FOR
SPONSORING AND CONSIDERING MY
REVOLUTION AND I REALLY WANT TO
ARGUE THAT THE REVOLUTION
COMMITTEE PUT TOGETHER NO ON
THE AGENDA IN THE ONE COMMUNITY
I DO IT I AM ERROR LIBERTY
COMMITTEE.
ALL OF THEM WORKED HARD ON THIS
RESOLUTION.
THEY ARGUE YOU TO PUT FORWARD
MORE POWER.
WE I DON'T KNOW IF YOU REMEMBER
ME BUT WE HAD SEVERAL
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT TWENTY TWENTY
ONE CITY IN POWER.
I WILL SAY THAT THIS IS THE
POWER AND I SAID RIGHT SORRY
ABOUT BEING PALESTINIAN AND YOU
TOLD ME AND YOU CAN AND ONCE
AGAIN YOU ME AND YOUR PEOPLE
WHEN WE WERE OUR COMPANY OR OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO AGAIN
HAVE NOT LOST COMMUNITY, I URGE
YOU TO CONSIDER THIS COMMUNITY
COUNCIL HAS STOOD BY ITS
COMMUNITY MEMBERS OF EVERY
SINGLE ONE OF YOU, INCLUDING
THE MAYOR AND ONCE WE BOND WITH
YOUR PEOPLE WHO YOU REPRESENT,
WE NEED OUR VOICES MATTER NOW
WE HAVE DIFFERENT INDIVIDUALS
WHO WANT TO PROMOTE THIS IDEA
OF HATE BUT AGAINST THAT WE ARE
SPEAKING AGAINST AND I URGE YOU
TO VOTE AGAINST THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE BEING SLAUGHTERED.
I ASK YOU TO SHOW ME THE THE
PEOPLE I ASK YOU AND I URGE YOU
TO SHOW US THAT THE PEOPLE WILL
BE HARD AND THAT WE WILL NOT
HAVE CLOSED DOOR MEETING
WITHOUT OUR PEOPLE, WITHOUT OUR
VOICES FIRST AND FOREMOST SHOW
ME THAT CITY.
LET ME AND EVERY SINGLE PERSON
AND THEN I WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR LISTENING TO MY BOY AND YET
AGAIN I WOULD LIKE TO ASK THAT
WE KNOW OUR HISTORY AGAINST
HATE HATE AGAINST YOU HATE THE
HELPING AGAINST MUSLIMS, HATE
AGAINST EVERY SINGLE ETHNICITY
AND RACE AND NOT LISTEN TO THE
HATEFUL INDIVIDUAL CALLED THANK
YOU AND I THAT I WANT TO THANK
YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARK SHEFI
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING AN EIGHT ZERO FOUR IF
YOU ARE ON ZUM MALAC ELECTRIFY
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND
PHONE NUMBER EIGHT ZERO FOUR
I
DID NOT SEE THIS CALLER ON
ZOOME
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
TASNIM MORADI.
OK HI MY NAME IS TASNIM.
I HAD WANTED TO START UP
THINKING COUNCIL MEMBERS I
SHALL SCHATZI EDWIN LIN SONG
AND ERICA BRIGG'S FOR
COSPONSORING A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION AND THE ONLY OTHER
COUNCIL MEMBER WHO GOT BACK TO
ME THIS LAST WEEK AND PLEDGE
THEIR SUPPORT TO A RESOLUTION
TODAY.
>> BUT SINCE IT WAS RESCINDED
I'M NOT REALLY SURE HOW I FEEL
.
I'VE HEARD SENTIMENTS A CALLING
FOR A CEASE FIRE WON'T MAKE A
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON
GEOPOLITICS BUT IT IS AN
ESSENTIAL FIRST STEP AS A
GESTURE OF TRANSNATIONAL
SOLIDARITY AND AS A WAY
OF PRESSURING OUR ELECTED
OFFICIALS TO ENACT CHANGE
THROUGH LEGISLATION.
I'D LIKE TO THINK THAT WE CAN
ALL AGREE THAT OVER NINETEEN
THOUSAND CHILDREN IS ENOUGH
NINETY JOURNALISTS IS ENOUGH.
THIRTY MEMBERS OF MY FAMILY
ALONE HAVE BEEN KILLED OVER THE
PAST TWO MONTHS.
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION,
HOWEVER FLAWED, HAD ALSO
ADDRESSED THE RISE
OF ISLAMOPHOBIA, ANTI-SEMITISM
AND ANTI ARAB BIGOTRY HERE AT
HOME AND IN OUR WORK.
>> I WANT TO SPEAK TO THAT.
>> I'M A PALESTINIAN SYRIAN
AMERICAN STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
FELLOW PALESTINIANS PEACE
ACTIVISTS AND ALLIES THAT YOU
OF THEM HAVE BEEN ROUTINELY
HARASSED AT PROTESTS AND ONLINE
BY THE BOARD MEMBERS.
THE SCHOOL OF INFORMATION
CALLED PEACEFUL PROTESTERS
RAPISTS AND MURDERERS.
INSTEAD OF HOLDING HER
ACCOUNTABLE, LGEN LEADERSHIP
CALLED FOR RESTORATIVE ACTIONS.
STUDENTS HAVE BEEN DOCK'S
WITHOUT PROTECTION FROM THE
SCHOOL AND PEACEFUL PROTESTS
HAVE BEEN MET WITH OVERPOLICING
AND VIOLENT ARRESTS.
>> I'M ALSO A STUDENT AT U OF M
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION AND AS A
STUDENT TEACHER IN THE DISTRICT
AND A FELLOW HUMAN BEING I'M
CONCERNED WITH THE WELL-BEING
OF YOUNG PEOPLE EVERYWHERE.
EARLIER TODAY I READ AN ARTICLE
IN THE DETROIT NEWS THAT SHOWED
A HORRIFIC EXPERIENCE FOR AN
EIGHTH GRADER AT TAPPIN MIDDLE
SCHOOL WHO AS A SCHOOL
COUNSELOR IF HE COULD GO OUT TO
DRINK WATER SHE TOLD HIM NO AND
WHEN HE ASKED WHY, SHE SAID I
DON'T NEGOTIATE WITH TERRORISTS
AFTER HE EXPRESSED HIS HURT
BEING A PALESTINIAN AMERICAN,
SHE TURNED TO THE OTHER ADULTS
IN THE ROOM WHO INSTEAD
OF PROTECTING THE STUDENT FROM
FURTHER HARM AFFIRMED WHAT SHE
SAID AND AGREED THAT THIS IS A
PHRASE WE USE ALL THE TIME.
>> WHERE IS THE ACCOUNTABILITY
AND WHY IS THE DEHUMANIZATION
OF ARAB AND MUSLIM CHILDREN
BEING NORMALIZED AND THEREFORE
CALLING ON THIS COUNCIL TO PASS
A RESOLUTION WITH INPUT FROM
US?
THE PEOPLE THAT HOLD OUR
LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABLE TO
PROTECT THE MOST VULNERABLE
OF US HOME AND ABROAD
HUMANITARIAN AID WORKERS,
HOSPITAL PERSONNEL, TEACHERS,
STUDENTS, CHILDREN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> SPEAKER FEES AND REDSKINS'
ABRAHAM RASCHEIN.
IF YOU'RE STILL ON ZOOME CAN
YOU PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND PHONE NUMBER ENDING
IN ZERO THREE SIX BEING BACALAR
ABRAHAM RESCANNED MAYOR I
BELIEVE THIS CALLER IS HUNG UP
JUST NOW
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CHRISTINE
ABUZER
.
>> MY NAME IS CHRISTINE BIZARRE
AND I'M A I'M A NATIVE BORN
MICHIGANDER AND I'VE BEEN A
PART OF THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY
SINCE 1986.
I'VE APPEARED BEFORE THIS
COUNCIL MANY TIMES BEFORE THIS
TIME THERE IS SO MUCH TO SAY I
HARDLY KNOW WHAT TO SAY AND I
HARDLY KNEW WHICH OF MY SIGNS
TO BRING TONIGHT YOU'LL SEE
THAT I CHOSE THE SWING JUSTICE
FOR THAT SIMPLY IS IN ESSENCE
WHAT THE PALESTINIANS NEED.
THAT SAID, I WANT TO MOVE ON TO
THANKING THE MEMBERS OF THIS
CITY COUNCIL AND THE GROUP
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE
WRITTEN PROPOSED WORDING FOR A
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION EVEN
THOUGH THE TOPIC IS NOT ON THE
AGENDA TONIGHT.
I THINK IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN
REFERENCE TO THESE TWO
RESOLUTIONS.
I HAVE READ THE DRAFTS.
I WOULD LIKE TO ENCOURAGE AND
ACTUALLY INSIST THAT THE
AUTHORS BE CAREFUL WITH THE
WORDINGS BECAUSE WORDS MATTER.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE VERY FIRST
SENTENCE OF THE CITY RESOLUTION
PROPOSAL BEGINS AND I QUOTE ON
OCTOBER SEVEN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE HAMAS TERRORIST KILLED
AND HERE FROM THE GET GO A BIAS
IS INTERWOVEN INTO THE WORDING
OF THE DOCUMENT.
PLEASE KEEP IN MIND THAT
CITIZENS OF THAT OCCUPIED LAND
DO HAVE THE RIGHT TO RESIST
OCCUPATION A MORE OBJECTIVE
WORDING WOULD BE HAMAS FIGHTERS
OR THE HAMAS MILITIA.
ANOTHER SECTION OF THE
REVOLUTION QUOTES CONDEMNS THE
ACTIONS OF HAMAS A BALANCED
WORDING WITH REFERENCE
CONDEMNATION OF WAR CRIMES ON
EITHER SIDE FOR MYSELF AND MY
COMMUNITIES.
I DO INSIST THAT FAIRNESS BE
APPLIED IN THE WORDING OF ANY
RESOLUTION THE CHOICE OF WORDS
MUST REFLECT JUSTICE ALONG
THESE LINES.
I STAND FIRM BEFORE YOU AND I
STATE THAT ANTI ZIONISM DOES
NOT EQUAL ANTI-SEMITISM.
WE MUST SAY THE TRUTH NOT
TIPTOE AROUND REALITY IF THE
REALITY IS OCCUPATION,
ANNEXATION, OPPRESSION, RACISM
,APARTHEID, WAR CRIMES, ETHNIC
CLEANSING, GENOCIDE THEN WE
SHOULD STATE THAT REALITY.
WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO STAND UP
AND SAY IT LIKE IT IS INDEED WE
HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY TO
STAND UP AND SAY IT LIKE IT IS
.
SO HERE I AM AND HERE WE ARE.
IT'S BEEN A LOT OF YEARS FROM
THE NAKBA THROUGH THE FIRST
INTIFADA, THE SECOND INTIFADA
TO NOW AND EVERYTHING IN
BETWEEN THE ARAB AND MUSLIM
COMMUNITY MEMBERS UNDERSTAND
WHAT I'M SAYING.
I'M SURE THAT THE OLDER
ACTIVISTS IN THIS COMMUNITY
UNDERSTAND WHAT I'M SAYING AS
WELL.
WE'RE HERE FOR THE LONG HAUL.
IT WAS HARD TO CHOOSE MY SIDE.
I CHOSE JUSTICE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. COAN.
OK,
OK.
HELLO MY NAME IS DOING COHON.
I'M AN UNDERGRADUATE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND A
JEWISH RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR IN
THE COMPANY OF THE PALESTINIAN
LIBERATION MOVEMENT IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
I'VE BEEN GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY
TO REASSESS MY RELATIONSHIP TO
FAMILY AND FAITH.
THE GROWING STUDENT MOVEMENT AT
MICHIGAN IS LED LARGELY BY ARAB
AMERICAN AND MUSLIM STUDENTS,
MANY OF THEM THE CHILDREN
OF IMMIGRANT PARENTS.
>> SOME IMMIGRANTS THEMSELVES.
THROUGHOUT AMERICAN HISTORY
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITIES HAVE BEEN
EXPLOITED, VILIFIED, OSTRACIZED
AND BRUTALIZED.
A BAD AMERICAN HABIT.
ARAB AMERICANS ARE SUBJECT TO
THE SAME PATTERNS
OF DISCRIMINATION AS THE IRISH,
THE CHINESE AND ITALIANS BEFORE
THE NOT LONG GO EUROPEAN JEWS
WERE AMERICA'S INCONVENIENT
REFUGEES SUBJECT TO IMMIGRATION
QUOTAS AND DEHUMANIZING
ALIENATION.
NEVERTHELESS, WE JEWS MADE
AMERICA OUR HOME AND FOR HAVING
COMMUNITIES ALL ACROSS THE
COUNTRY FROM ATLANTIC TO
PACIFIC, FROM DETROIT TO ANN
ARBOR.
HOWEVER, THE SHOCKING
CONCLUSION I'VE COME TO IS THAT
THE AMERICAN JEWISH COMMUNITY
HAS LOST TOUCH.
WE'VE LOST TOUCH WITH OUR
STORIED RESISTANCE.
GLOBAL HERITAGE AND WE'VE LOST
WE'VE LOST TOUCH WITH OUR
TOUCH WITH OUR JEWISH VALUES
GLOBAL HERITAGE AND WE'VE LOST
OWING THIS LARGELY TO THE
TOUCH WITH OUR JEWISH VALUES
SMOTHERING TIDES OF HISTORY
OWING THIS LARGELY TO THE
THIS PAST WEEK WITH HANUKKAH A
SMOTHERING TIDES OF HISTORY
CELEBRATION OF OUR PERSEVERANCE
THIS PAST WEEK WITH HANUKKAH A
THROUGH FAITH ACROSS MILLENNIA
CELEBRATION OF OUR PERSEVERANCE
AND ACROSS CONTINENTS,
THROUGH FAITH ACROSS MILLENNIA
RESILIENCE AND FAITH IN GOD HAS
AND ACROSS CONTINENTS,
ALLOWED US TO OVERCOME
RESILIENCE AND FAITH IN GOD HAS
COUNTLESS HARDSHIPS.
ALLOWED US TO OVERCOME
THE MODERN STATE OF ISRAEL
COUNTLESS HARDSHIPS.
PRESENTS US WITH YET ANOTHER
THE MODERN STATE OF ISRAEL
CHALLENGE TO RECLAIM OUR
PRESENTS US WITH YET ANOTHER
HISTORY, THE ZIONIST PROJECT
CHALLENGE TO RECLAIM OUR
TELLS US WE ARE ALONE AND THAT
HISTORY, THE ZIONIST PROJECT
WE MUST BE AFRAID.
TELLS US WE ARE ALONE AND THAT
IT TELLS US THAT ISRAEL IS THE
WE MUST BE AFRAID.
ONLY SURE SOLUTION TO OUR
IT TELLS US THAT ISRAEL IS THE
SAFETY AND IT TELLS US THAT
ONLY SURE SOLUTION TO OUR
PALESTINIANS MUST DIE TO ENSURE
SAFETY AND IT TELLS US THAT
THAT SAFETY THE STATE OF ISRAEL
PALESTINIANS MUST DIE TO ENSURE
TRANSMUTES FEARS AND THE TOOLS
THAT SAFETY THE STATE OF ISRAEL
OF WAR, WEAPONIZED
TRANSMUTES FEARS AND THE TOOLS
ANTI-SEMITISM AND LEVERAGING
OF WAR, WEAPONIZED
PROGRESSIVE ANTI-RACIST
ANTI-SEMITISM AND LEVERAGING
POLITICS TO JUSTIFY THE
PROGRESSIVE ANTI-RACIST
GENOCIDE IN GAZA.
POLITICS TO JUSTIFY THE
THE GLOBAL JEWISH COMMUNITY
GENOCIDE IN GAZA.
MUST FACE REALITY.
THE GLOBAL JEWISH COMMUNITY
WE DID NOT COME INTO THIS
MUST FACE REALITY.
WORLD.
WE DID NOT COME INTO THIS
WE CAME OUT OF IT.
WORLD.
WE ARE CAPABLE OF REPEATING THE
WE CAME OUT OF IT.
SAME PATTERNS OF HATE,
WE ARE CAPABLE OF REPEATING THE
NATIONALISM AND MILITARISM THAT
SAME PATTERNS OF HATE,
TORE APART TIME AFTER TIME.
NATIONALISM AND MILITARISM THAT
HOWEVER, WE CAN REVERSE THESE
TORE APART TIME AFTER TIME.
PATTERNS AS WELL.
HOWEVER, WE CAN REVERSE THESE
WE CAN SHAKE THE STATUS QUO BY
PATTERNS AS WELL.
SHOWING UP IN SOLIDARITY WITH
WE CAN SHAKE THE STATUS QUO BY
OUR PALESTINIAN BROTHERS AND
SHOWING UP IN SOLIDARITY WITH
SISTERS.
OUR PALESTINIAN BROTHERS AND
WE CAN DEMAND OUR INSTITUTIONS
SISTERS.
TO DIVEST FROM APARTHEID STATES
WE CAN DEMAND OUR INSTITUTIONS
AND TONIGHT WE CAN CALL UPON
TO DIVEST FROM APARTHEID STATES
OUR ELECTED OFFICIALS TO LEAD
AND TONIGHT WE CAN CALL UPON
THE WAY FOR A CEASE FIRE IF THE
OUR ELECTED OFFICIALS TO LEAD
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL IS TO
THE WAY FOR A CEASE FIRE IF THE
EFFECTIVELY CALL FOR A CEASE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL IS TO
FIRE, IT MUST ACCURATELY
EFFECTIVELY CALL FOR A CEASE
ADDRESS SEVENTY FIVE YEARS
FIRE, IT MUST ACCURATELY
OF OCCUPATION BY INCORPORATING
ADDRESS SEVENTY FIVE YEARS
THE LANGUAGE FROM THE COMMUNITY
OF OCCUPATION BY INCORPORATING
DRAFTED RESOLUTION.
THE LANGUAGE FROM THE COMMUNITY
MAREK EDELMAN, A LEADER OF THE
DRAFTED RESOLUTION.
WARSAW UPRISING AND HOLOCAUST
MAREK EDELMAN, A LEADER OF THE
SURVIVOR, SAID TO BE A JEW IT'S
WARSAW UPRISING AND HOLOCAUST
ALWAYS BEING WITH THE OPPRESSED
SURVIVOR, SAID TO BE A JEW IT'S
AND NEVER WITH THE OPPRESSOR.
ALWAYS BEING WITH THE OPPRESSED
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
AND NEVER WITH THE OPPRESSOR.
SPEAKING IN IS DR. CONRAD
COLLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN ONE TWO SEVEN FOUR
STAR SIX ON MUTE YOUR PHONE GO
AHEAD.
>> HI, THIS IS DR. MUZAMMIL.
I AM A LOCAL PHYSICIAN SERVING
THIS AREA AND IN AN HOUR BUT
FOR MANY YEARS I WORK WITH
MAGALY WHICH IS A GLOBAL CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
MOBILIZED THE MUSLIM AMERICAN
COMMUNITY HERE IN MICHIGAN AND
NATIONALLY.
WE WERE VERY SORRY TO SEE THE
CEASEFIRE RESOLUTION WITHDRAWN
CONSIDERATION RECENTLY AND NOW
IS KNOWN FOR LEADING BEING A
LEADING VOICE ON ISSUES OF THE
DAY.
WE ARE AMONG THE FIRST TO SPEAK
OUT IN BIG ISSUES SUCH AS
VIETNAM, BLACK LIVES MATTER AND
OTHER BIG ISSUES THAT AFFECT
OUR COUNTRY AND I THINK IN
PARTICULAR IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
SPEAK OUT ABOUT THE GENOCIDE
OCCURRING IN GAZA, THE ONGOING
OCCUPATION OF THE PALESTINIAN
LAND AND ALSO TO MANY OF OUR
YOUTH MUSLIM 15 PALESTINIANS
ALSO WHO LIVE IN PALESTINE, WHO
LIVE IN ISRAEL AND WHO LIVE
RIGHT HERE IN AMERICA AND RIGHT
HERE IN WE HAVE A VERY DIVERSE
COMMUNITY WITH PEOPLE FROM ALL
SIDES LIVING IN LIBYA'S
NEIGHBORS RIGHT HERE IN THE
CITY.
THE INNOVATION THAT NEEDS TO
OCCUR TO JUSTIFY THE VIOLENCE
OVERSEAS WILL GO RIGHT HERE IN
OUR OWN TOWN WHERE WE TAKE
SEMITISM, ISLAMOPHOBIA AND
ONGOING BIGOTRY.
I APPRECIATE THE DIVERSE VOICES
SPEAKING OUT HERE TODAY FOR
PARTY AND I REALLY ENCOURAGE
THE CITY COUNCIL TO ALSO
EMBRACE A CEASEFIRE RESOLUTION
THAT RECOGNIZES THE HUMANITY
OF ALL OF IT AND WILL ADD TO
THE GROUNDSWELL OF SUPPORT
OCCURRING ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN
SMALL TOWN WE TELL OUR ELECTED
OFFICIALS ON THE NATIONAL AND
FEDERAL LEVEL THAT WE WANT THE
VIOLENCE TO STOP AND A PEACEFUL
SOLUTION TO BE FOUGHT OVER
INTEGRATING.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WEEK WILL SEEM AS TO WHY.
GOOD EVENING AND RESPECTED
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I AM A PHYSICIAN ALSO MY
SERVICE AND I SERVE THIS
COMMUNITY AND I WORK IN THE
PEDIATRIC INTENSIVE CARE UNIT
AND JUST FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN IN THAT PLACE WE
USUALLY RECEIVE THE SICKEST
OF THE SICK OF THE KIDS TO THE
ICU AND I EXPERIENCED FIRSTHAND
THE DESPERATION AND THE FEAR
OF THE PARENTS FACES WHEN THEY
COME TO US AND THEY ARE JUST
LOOKING TO US TO SAY IS YOUR
KIDS GOING TO SURVIVE OR NOT?
AND THEN OUT OF 100 THAT COMES
THROUGH THE ICU NATIONALLY
NATIONALLY WE USUALLY HAVE
AROUND TWO AND A HALF PERCENT
WHO ACTUALLY PASSES AWAY AND I
EXPERIENCED FIRST HAND HOW THE
DEVASTATION FOR THE PARENTS
WHEN I SIT DOWN WITH THEM AND
TELL THEM LIKE YOUR KID IS NOT
GOING TO SURVIVE THIS DISEASE
OR THIS ACCIDENT AND JUST A FEW
DAYS AGO I HAD TO GO THROUGH
THIS HORRIBLE EXPERIENCE AND
IT'S DISTRESSED ALL OF US LIKE
THE ICU AND WE SEE A KID WHO
PASSES AWAY AND I COULD NOT NOT
THINK OF A THOUSAND CHILDREN IN
PALESTINE THAT THEY HAVE
ACTUALLY BEEN KILLED.
IT'S NOT A DISEASE.
IT'S NOT A BAD ACCIDENT.
IT IS OUT OF BOMBING AND IT'S
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT IT'S
LIKE DURING COVID WE WENT
THROUGH HORRIBLE SCENARIO ALL
OF US AND DURING THIS HORRIBLE
EXPERIENCE WE'VE EXPERIENCED WE
USUALLY TALK WE STARTED TALKING
TO THE COMMUNITY AND TELLING
THEM YOU NEED TO ADHERE TO
THESE GUIDELINES BECAUSE ONE
PREVENTABLE ILLNESS AND DEATH
IS HUGE.
BUT HERE WE'RE ON EIGHT
THOUSAND KIDS BEING KILLED.
WE STILL HAVE I'VE BEEN HERE IN
ANN ARBOR SINCE 2009 AND I'VE
BEEN A PROUD MEMBER OF THIS
COMMUNITY BUT AND ANN ARBOR HAS
BEEN VOTED AS THE BEST LIVING
CITY IN THE US MULTIPLE TIMES
AND STILL NOT BEING ABLE TO SAY
WE ARE NOT ENDORSING A CEASE
FIRE JUST A HUMANITARIAN LIKE
JUST THINK ABOUT HUMANITY.
WE HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE BEING
KILLED.
WE ARE STILL BEHIND OUR
NEIGHBORS HERE IN SC AND IN
CANTON.
THEY HAVE PASSED THIS
RESOLUTION.
I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE ALL
OF US JUST TO SAY JUST FOCUS ON
JUST A SIMPLE CEASE FIRE AND
THAT'S THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
.
MY NAME IS ADAM.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO COME AND SPEAK
WITH YOU.
I'VE ACTUALLY NEVER BEEN TO A
CITY COUNCIL MEETING BEFORE AND
FELT LIKE IT WAS COMING JUST TO
THANK YOU FOR TAKING THE CEASE
FIRE OFF THEIR AGENDA TONIGHT
AND I THINK THAT IT'S PRETTY
CLEAR THAT THERE WAS A CEASE
FIRE OCTOBER 6TH AND THAT WAS
BROKEN ON OCTOBER 7TH.
I KNOW THREE PEOPLE WHO ARE
AFFECTED IS AN UNDERSTATEMENT
IMPACT DEEPLY AFFECTED ON
OCTOBER 7TH IN ISRAEL THREE
PEOPLE WERE TAKEN HOSTAGE.
ONE IS SINCE RELEASED, ONE
STILL CAPTIVE AND THEN THE
THIRD PERSON ACTUALLY DON'T
KNOW PERSONALLY BUT THE AUNT
OF A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR, SHE
DISAPPEARED ON OCTOBER 7TH AND
AND IT WAS UNCLEAR IF SHE WAS A
HOSTAGE OR IF SHE WAS DEAD .
AND THEN SEVERAL WEEKS LATER
THE FAMILY WAS NOTIFIED.
FORENSIC ANALYSIS SHOWED THAT A
BURNT CRISP OF A BODY WAS THERE
AND THE RESIDENCE AND NO ONE
HAS ASKED ME BUT I WAS GOING TO
DRAFT SOMETHING THAT WOULD
INCLUDE MANY THINGS INCLUDING
DISARMAMENT OF HAMAS,
PARTICULARLY BECAUSE THEY'VE
ARTICULATED THEIR INTENTION TO
REPEAT THE ATROCITIES
OF OCTOBER 7TH AND THEN ALSO TO
CALL FOR THE RELEASE OF THE
HOSTAGES.
>> AS I'M STANDING IN THE BACK
HERE I RECOGNIZE THAT MY
PERSPECTIVE IS DIFFERENT THAN
THE PERSPECTIVE OF MANY PEOPLE
IN THIS ROOM AND BECAUSE
OF THAT AGAIN I THANK YOU FOR
PULLING THE RESOLUTION.
I DON'T THINK THAT IT'S OUR
SPACE TO BE CALLING FOR
RESOLUTIONS ON SUCH A
CONTENTIOUS ISSUE JUST LIKE THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER.
I'M A PHYSICIAN HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND REGARDLESS OF WHAT
THE PERSON I'M TAKING CARE
OF LOOKS LIKE REGARDLESS
OF THEIR RACE, RELIGION,
NATIONAL HERITAGE, WHATEVER IT
MAY BE, I TRY TO TAKE REALLY
GOOD CARE OF THEM FOR ALL THE
PEOPLE IN THE ROOM I WOULD TRY
TO TAKE REALLY GOOD CARE OF YOU
AS WELL.
I WOULD HOPE THAT IF YOU'RE A
PHYSICIAN OR A NURSE OR A
FIREFIGHTER OR A POLICE PERSON
THAT YOU WOULD ALSO TAKE CARE
OF ME.
I THINK THAT THE WORK HERE FOR
US TO DO IS TO FOCUS ON THE
WORK HERE THAT WE CAN DO.
I THINK THAT ANY KIND
OF RESOLUTION THAT YOU COULD
CALL FOR ABOUT SOMETHING THAT'S
HAPPENING OVERSEAS WOULD DEEPLY
,DEEPLY, DEEPLY WOUND ONE SIDE
OF THIS CONTENTIOUS
CONFLICT OR
ANOTHER
.
I CAN SPEAK FOR MYSELF THAT IT
PROBABLY WOULD NOT LEAD ME TO
LEAVE.
VANOVER BUT AFTER LIVING HERE
FOR ABOUT TWENTY YEARS IF THERE
WAS A SERIES OF SIMILAR KINDS
OF THINGS IT WOULD MAKE ME FEEL
DEEPLY UNWELCOME AND IT WOULD
MAKE ME FEEL LIKE I COULDN'T BE
HERE.
>> IT WOULD MAKE ME FEEL LIKE I
WOULD HAVE TO MOVE AGAIN.
I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE TIME TO SPEAK
AND I APPRECIATE YOU PULLING
THE CEASE FIRE FROM THE AGENDA
FOR TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS FREE.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK TONIGHT.
I MEAN FORWARD FOR THE PAST
TWENTY FIVE YEARS I'VE CALLED
THE WORLD TO AN ABOUT MY HOME.
I'M ALSO PRIVILEGED TO SERVE AS
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
JEWISH FEDERATION OF GREATER
ANN ARBOR WHICH PROVIDES
PHILANTHROPIC LEADERSHIP AND
COMMUNITY BUILDING TO NURTURE A
STRONG ENGAGED, CONNECTED,
CARING, VIBRANT AND ENDURING
JEWISH COMMUNITY.
OUR WORK FOCUSES ON POLITICAL
ENGAGEMENT AND CONVENING
RELIGIOUSLY, RACIALLY AND
ECONOMICALLY DIVERSE LOCAL
JEWISH COMMUNITY AROUND
IMPORTANT COMMUNAL ISSUES.
SADLY, MUCH OF OUR ATTENTION
AND RESOURCES LATELY HAD BEEN
UTILIZED TO ADDRESS GROWING
ANTI-SEMITISM AND SECURITY
THREATS TO OUR CONGREGATIONS
AND ORGANIZATIONS.
WHEN ASKED BY THE CLERK'S
OFFICE ABOUT WHAT TOPIC I
WANTED TO ADDRESS THIS EVENING,
THE FIRST THING THAT CAME TO
MIND WAS CIVIL DISCOURSE OVER
THE COURSE OF THE PAST COUNCIL
MEETINGS HERE AND IN YPSILANTI
I'VE SEEN A DISTURBING LACK
OF CIVIL DISCOURSE WHICH IS NOT
HOW I WOULD HOPE PEOPLE LIVE
AND WORK IN OUR COMMUNITIES
SHOULD COMMUNICATE WITH ONE
ANOTHER.
WHAT I HAVE SEEN IS PEOPLE WHO
ARE BEING SILENT SILENCING
THOSE WITH WHOM THEY DO NOT
AGREE.
I HAVE SEEN PEOPLE WHO ARE
JUSTIFIABLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
WELL-BEING OF THEIR RELATIVES
AND FRIENDS IN GAZA
DEMONSTRATING A REMARKABLE AND
INTENSE LACK OF COMPASSION FOR
OTHERS WHO ARE ALSO GRIEVING
AND WORRYING ABOUT THEIR
RELATIVES AND FRIENDS IN ISRAEL
STILL BEING HELD HOSTAGE IN
GAZA, INCLUDING MY FRIEND KEITH
SEIGLE.
I'VE SEEN PEOPLE JUSTIFY THE
MURDER, RAPE AND TAKING
OF HOSTAGES OF MEN, WOMEN,
CHILDREN AND THE ELDERLY.
I RECOGNIZED TERROR
ORGANIZATION AS AN ACCEPTABLE,
EVEN DESIRABLE ACT
OF RESISTANCE TO ISRAELI
OCCUPATION OR WORSE DENYING
THAT THESE EVENTS ACTUALLY
HAPPENED.
AND I HAVE WITNESSED PERSONAL
INVECTIVE AGAINST ANY COUNCIL
PEOPLE TRYING TO EXPRESS THEIR
CONCERN FOR ALL CITIZENS OF OUR
BEHAVIOR AND LANGUAGE DISPLAYED
BY PEOPLE WHO SAY THEY FEEL
UNSAFE AND I WELCOME FOSTERS
FEAR AND INTIMIDATION MAKING
OTHER MEMBERS OF THIS COMMUNITY
FEEL UNSAFE AND UNWELCOME.
I AM COMMITTED AS YOU ARE TO
THE PRINCIPLE OF FREE SPEECH
BUT JUST BECAUSE SPEECH IS
LEGAL DOESN'T MEAN IT'S NOT
RUDE, DISRESPECTFUL AND AT
TIMES ANTI-SEMITIC.
I'M BEGINNING TO WONDER IF
THERE MIGHT BE SOME SORT
OF CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SPEECH
AND BEHAVIOR THAT COULD BE
ADOPTED BY THIS BODY TO ENSURE
THAT ALL CITIZENS ARE ABLE TO
BE SEEN AND HEARD WITHOUT BEING
SCARED TO DO SO.
OUR CITY COUNCIL EXISTS TO
ADDRESS THE LOCAL ISSUES THAT
CONCERN ALL CITIZENS SOMETHING
IN OUR POWER TO ENSURE THAT IN
OUR SAFE, PLEASANT, WELCOMING,
EQUITABLE, INCLUSIVE PLACE TO
LIVE, WORK, PRAY AND ENGAGE IN
PUBLIC DISCOURSE IS LOW PEOPLE
AND LOCAL ISSUES WHICH I'D LIKE
TO SEE THEM ENGAGED NOT
SPENDING HOURS TRYING TO
ADDRESS DIVISIVE GEOPOLITICAL
ISSUES AND TRYING TO PLEASE
PEOPLE WHO DO NOT DEMONSTRATE
RESPECT THE WORK OF THIS BODY
NOR THEIR FELLOW CITIZENS.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
BYE BYE.
MY CLOCK WE HAVE RUN THROUGH
OUR FORTY FIVE MINUTES AND SO
THE BALANCE OF THE SPEAKERS
WILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK IN PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW WHICH WILL OCCUR AFTER
THE THE ENTIRETY OF OUR THE
BUSINESS PORTION OF OUR ARE THE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL COUNTERMARCH 01.
>> THANK YOU FOR SO MANY OF THE
COMMUNITY FOR COMING OUT
TONIGHT AND SHARING YOUR
THOUGHTS.
UM YOU KNOW I JUST I WANT TO
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
RESOLUTION AND WHAT HAPPENED.
SO FIRSTLY I UNDERSTAND THAT
SOME LANGUAGE COULD HAVE BEEN
CHANGED OR STRENGTHENED IN THE
RESOLUTION AND THE REASON THAT
IT WAS PULLED TONIGHT WAS
BECAUSE DESPITE ALL THE TIME
AND EFFORT THAT MY COLLEAGUES
AND I PUT INTO A BALANCED
RESOLUTION, DESPITE THE HOURS
OF CONVERSATION WE HAD WITH
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE ISSUE, IT WAS CLEAR THAT
MORE TIME WAS NEEDED FOR MORE
INPUT AND MORE TIME WAS NEEDED
TO REVIEW AND REFLECT ON OUR
CALL FOR PEACE IN ANN ARBOR AND
ABROAD RESOLUTIONS OF THIS KIND
ARE IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLE TO BE
ABLE TO SEE THEMSELVES IN IT
AND IT'S IMPORTANT FOR THEM TO
BE NONPARTIZAN MORE WORK IS
NEEDED AND FELL SHORT IN MANY
WAYS I AM DEDICATED TO ENSURING
THAT ANY CONTINUED CONVERSATION
THAT I'M INVOLVED IN ABOUT THIS
TOPIC.
I WILL ENSURE THAT DIFFERENT
COMMUNITIES WILL BE PRESENT AND
REPRESENTED WITH DIGNITY AND
ARBOR IS KNOWN FOR BEING A
COMMUNITY THAT ALWAYS SPEAKS UP
AND OTHERS ARE MARGINALIZED AND
WE PROTECT THE MOST VULNERABLE
AMONG US AND THIS COUNCIL WILL
CONTINUE TO WORK TOGETHER TO
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
I UNDERSTAND THAT A RESOLUTION
WILL BRING SOME COMFORT TO THE
FAMILIES HERE IN ANN ARBOR THAT
FEEL HURT, FEEL SCARED AND HURT
AND WHO ARE LOSING LOVED ONES.
I ALSO JOINED THE UNITED
NATIONS.
MANY STATE REPRESENTATIVES
INCLUDING CONGRESS MEMBER
DEBBIE DINGELL AND TO LEAVE
MANY OF OUR LABOR UNIONS IN
SUPPORT OF A PERMANENT CEASE
FIRE IN GAZA.
I ALSO CONDEMN THE ACTIONS
OF HAMAS OCTOBER 7TH AND I HOPE
AND PRAY FOR LASTING PEACE IN
ISRAEL AND PALESTINE AND IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL CUSTOMER BREAKS
.
YEAH, IT'S IT'S DIFFICULT TO
KNOW TO SAY IN A MOMENT LIKE
THIS.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO THANK
EVERYBODY WHO'S MADE TIME IN
THEIR NIGHT TO COME TO A CITY
COUNCIL MEETING TO START TO
SPEAK TO TO SHOW SUPPORT FOR
THOSE THAT THEY LOVE HERE
ABROAD FOR THOSE WHO ARE
SPEAKING WE HAVE I'D ALSO LIKE
TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI
EDWYN WHO'S BEEN TRYING HAS
REALLY BEEN LISTENING OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS AND
WORKING VERY HARD TO TRY TO
FIND A WAY TO TO BRING VOICE TO
THE VERY MANY DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVES THAT ARE IN THIS
ROOM.
AND IT'S AS YOU CAN HEAR JUST
FROM A FEW COMMENTS SO VERY
DIFFICULT.
WE KNOW THAT THIS IS A LOCAL
ISSUE.
IT'S BEEN CLEAR FROM JUST THE
FEW COMMENTS THAT WERE MADE HOW
VERY DEEPLY THIS IS IMPACTING
PEOPLE'S LIVES THAT ARE LOST
FRIENDS THAT ARE THAT HAVE BEEN
KILLED, HOSTAGES THAT HAVE BEEN
TAKEN, 30 FAMILY MEMBERS DEAD .
WE'VE HEARD IN OUR LAST MEETING
OF PEOPLE BEING YELLED AT ON
THEIR BIKE.
WE'RE HEARING TONIGHT
OF CHILDREN IN THE SCHOOLS AT
THE UNIVERSITY THERE'S DOXXING
WE KNOW THAT THIS IS A
PROFOUNDLY PROFOUND ISSUE FOR
OUR COMMUNITY AND I WISH THAT
WE HAD YOU KNOW, AS
CONGRESSWOMAN ENGEL HAS HAS
BEEN SAYING WE NEED A CEASE
FIRE.
>> WE NEED WE THE HOSTAGES NEED
TO BE RELEASED.
>> THIS THERE IS A PROFOUND
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS THAT'S
THAT'S HAPPENING IN OUR WORLD
AND IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S MADE
ITS WAY INTO THIS ROOM.
AND SO I THANK YOU FOR COMING
TONIGHT
.
I THAT I WILL LEAVE IT I GUESS
AT THAT AND THAT YOU KNOW, I
WILL CONTINUE TO TO TO MEET
WITH COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
WE RECOGNIZE THAT IS A
RESOLUTION OF THIS OF THIS
MAGNITUDE.
THE LANGUAGE OF IT IS IS VERY
IMPACTFUL.
THE WORDS NEED THE NUANCE IN
THEM IS IS IS PARTICULARLY
IMPACTFUL ACROSS DIFFERENT
COMMUNITIES AND IS TRY AS WE
MIGHT AS ONE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
PREDICT IT.
>> IT'S VERY CHALLENGING TO
COME TO THAT TO COME TO A GOOD
RESOLUTION WITHIN A SHORT
PERIOD OF TIME AND FOR THOSE
WHO SUGGEST THAT THERE IS A
COMMUNITY RESOLUTION THAT WE
COULD JUST SORT OF ADOPTED AND
DONE THAT I, I, I RECOGNIZE THE
DESIRE TO DO THAT BUT
UNFORTUNATELY IT'S VERY, VERY
ATYPICAL FOR US JUST TO TAKE A
RESOLUTION FROM THE COMMUNITY
AND SORT ADOPTED.
>> IT'S THERE'S REALLY A
DIFFERENT SORT OF APPROACH THAT
TAKES THAT YOU TAKE TO TO BRING
TOWARD RESOLUTION THAT REQUIRES
A LOT MORE COMMUNITY BY AND SO
ANYWAY I CONTINUE WORKING TO
RESPOND TO EMAILS THAT HAVE
COME INTO MY INBOX AND
CONVERSATIONS THAT THAT NEED TO
BE HAD.
>> KOTSENBURG AKMAN WANTED TO
START BY ACKNOWLEDGING EVERYONE
IN THIS ROOM TONIGHT AND
EVERYONE THAT'S COME TO OUR
PAST COUPLE MEETINGS.
>> THE ONGOING CONFLICT IN GAZA
IS A HEART WRENCHING REMINDER
OF THE PROFOUND COST OF WAR AND
I'M ALSO HORRIFIED TO SEE THE
TRAGIC LOSS OF LIFE AND THE
DEVASTATING IMPACT ON BOTH
PALESTINIANS AND ISRAELIS.
THE SITUATION UNDERSCORES THE
URGENT NEED FOR COMPASSION
UNDERSTAND ENDING AND A
RELENTLESS PURSUIT OF PEACE
EVERY LIFE LOST IS THE UNIVERSE
EXTINGUISHED EVERY INJURED
PERSON A DREAM ALTERED AND
EVERY DISPLACED FAMILY STORY
OF DESPAIR.
IT'S A SITUATION THAT CALLS FOR
EMPATHY AND SHARED COMMITMENT
TO END THE SUFFERING AND FORGE
A PATH TO PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE
.
SO I UNDERSTAND INTERPRETED
GEOGRAPHICALLY DISTANT FROM
GAZA AND ISRAEL, THE EMOTIONAL
AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE
CONFLICT IS PALPABLE IN
THIS
ROOM IN OUR COMMUNITY IT'S
HAVING A PROFOUND IMPACT ON ALL
OF US.
>> MANY HAVE FRIENDS, FAMILY
AND LOVED ONES SUFFERING
SOMEONE WHO HAS FAMILY TIES TO
THE REGION AND EMPATHIZE WITH
YOUR PAIN.
WHAT'S MORE DEEPLY TROUBLED BY
THE ALARMING INCREASE ANTI ARAB
ISLAMOPHOBIC AND ANTI-SEMITIC
RHETORIC AND ACTIONS OCCURRING
BOTH LOCALLY AND NATIONALLY I
DON'T PRETEND TO THE SOLUTION
FOR A LASTING PEACE.
>> I REALLY DON'T.
BUT I KNOW THERE'S A LOT
OF PAIN BEING FELT THROUGH OUR
ENTIRE COMMUNITY AND THAT PAINS
ME DEEPLY AND I THINK I'LL
LEAVE IT AT
FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR.
THANK YOU TO EVERYBODY WHO HAS
COME TONIGHT AND SPOKEN AND
SHARED THEIR VIEWS WITH US BY
EMAIL AND PHONE CALL AND HERE
AT THE MEETING I KNOW THAT
WE'VE HEARD FROM MANY THAT IT
DOESN'T FEEL LIKE WE'RE ALWAYS
LISTENING BUT I THINK I HOPE
THAT YOU CAN SEE THAT WE ARE
ALL TRYING TO STAY ENGAGED AND
TO LISTEN AND TO TO DO WHAT WE
CAN TO REDUCE HARM AND PAIN
THAT'S BEING CAUSED.
AND WHILE THERE'S NOT A
RESOLUTION AGENDA THIS EVENING
AFTER SPENDING THE LAST SEVERAL
WEEKS SPEAKING UP AND LISTENING
TO CONSTITUENTS AND COMMUNITY
MEMBERS IN MY LIMITED CAPACITY
AS A COUNCIL MEMBER, MANY
OF YOU ALREADY KNOW THAT I
JOINED FORCES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AND INDIVIDUALLY
CALLING FOR AN IMMEDIATE
BILATERAL CEASE FIRE AGREEMENT
TO END THE VIOLENCE IN ISRAEL
AND GAZA.
A RELEASE OF ALL HOSTAGES AND
FOUR CRITICAL AND SIGNIFICANT
HUMANITARIAN AID TO THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE WHO ARE
SUFFERING WITHOUT ACCESS TO
BASIC NEEDS LIKE FOOD, WATER,
MEDICINE AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES.
I'VE ALSO SHARED THIS VIEW WITH
OUR FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVES WHO
ARE BEST POSITIONED TO IMPACT
US FOREIGN POLICY.
THE ONGOING TOLL OF THIS WAR
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTING
INNOCENTS WHO SIMPLY LEFT TO
WISH WISH TO LIVE IN PEACE AND
SECURITY.
AND AS MY COUNCIL COLLEAGUES
HAVE EXPRESSED, THE LOSS
OF LIFE IS INCREDIBLY TRAGIC.
WHILE THIS FUTURE SEEMS TO BE
SLIPPING AWAY, I DO STILL HOPE
FOR A FREE AND INDEPENDENT
PALESTINE THAT CAN EXIST
ALONGSIDE FREE AND INDEPENDENT
ISRAEL WHERE PEOPLE OF ALL
BACKGROUNDS AND RELIGIOUS
BELIEFS CAN LIVE SECURELY AND
IN PEACE.
I DO AND THIS I AM SORRY IF
THIS IS CONTROVERSIAL BUT I DO
BELIEVE THAT THAT REQUIRES AND
I WANT TO UPLIFT CONGRESSWOMAN
BIGNALL STATEMENT THAT IT
REQUIRES A DURABLE TWO STATE
SOLUTION THAT ACHIEVES LASTING
PEACE AND STABILITY OF THE
REGION INCLUDES REMOVING HAMAS
FROM OPERATIONAL CONTROL
OF GAZA.
FINALLY, WHILE THE UNIVERSITY
COUNCIL DOES NOT HAVE DIRECT
INFLUENCE OVER US FOREIGN
POLICY OR HAVE PURVIEW OVER
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, IT IS
CLEAR THAT THE IMPACTS OF THE
ISRAEL HAMAS ARE BEING FELT BY
OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY.
RESIDENTS HAVE SHARED
HEARTBREAKING STORIES OF LOSS
AND MULTIGENERATIONAL PAIN AND
TRAUMA.
THEY'VE EXPRESSED INCREASED
FEELINGS OF FEAR, ANXIETY,
FRUSTRATION AND ANGER.
THEY FEEL SAFE ON THEIR CAMPUS
AND AROUND OUR COMMUNITY AND
FAR TOO MANY AND RIGHTS HAVE
SHARED THAT THEIR FEELING
TARGETED BECAUSE OF THEIR
RELIGION OR ETHNIC AND CULTURAL
IDENTITY.
>> I HAVE A DEEP LOVE AND
RESPECT FOR OUR MUSLIM AND
JEWISH COMMUNITIES AND HAVE
BEEN INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL TO
JOIN IN LOCAL EVENTS COMMUNITY
AVTAR AND PRIDE SHABBAT DURING
MY TIME ON COUNCIL.
IT BRINGS ME GREAT PAIN TO KNOW
THAT OUR MUSLIM JEWISH
PALESTINIAN, ARAB AND ISRAELI
NEIGHBORS ARE SUFFERING AND I
REMAIN FIRMLY COMMITTED TO
WORKING FOR ANYONE TOWARDS OUR
SHARED GOALS OF HEALING
COMMUTATIVE COMMUNITY DIVISION
,COMBATING RISING LEVELS
OF HATE AND PREVENTING HATE
BASED VIOLENCE FROM OCCURRING
LOCALLY.
>> THANK YOU
FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
.
I'VE SPOKEN A NUMBER
OF OCCASIONS ABOUT THE THE
CONFLICT OVERSEAS AND THE
CONFLICT HERE AT HOME AND I
GUESS I JUST LIKE TO AGAIN
RESTATE THAT THAT I AND WE AT
THE COUNCIL TABLE UNDERSTAND
THAT THIS IS THAT THIS IS JUST
SO DEEPLY WRENCHING FOR SO MANY
OF US AND IT IS JUST EFFECTS
AND AND ROCKS COMMUNITIES IN
ANN ARBOR THAT ARE ARE SO
IMPORTANT TO WHO WE ARE.
OUR CHALLENGE AT THE TABLE IS
THAT OUR PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY
IS TO THE COMMUNITY AS A WHOLE
AND WHEN THE COMMUNITY AS A
WHOLE IS IN HURT AND CONFLICT
AND TURMOIL THEN WE TOO TO A
CERTAIN DEGREE ARE IN HURT AND
TURMOIL AND ARE ARE HINDERED IN
OUR ABILITY TO ASSIST AND
PROVIDE DIRECT COMFORT BECAUSE
IT IS OUR OBLIGATION TO TO
SPEAK WHEN WE SPEAK FOR
EVERYONE.
>> IT'S IN THIS CONTEXT IN
PARTICULAR IT'S WELL IT'S NEVER
IT'S IT'S RARELY AN EASY TASK
AND IN THIS CONTEXT IS
PARTICULARLY DIFFICULT BUT IS
ONE THAT WE ARE CONSTANTLY
TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH AND THIS
IS NO EXCEPTION.
>> YOU KNOW, AS I GO FORWARD
AND AS I AS I HOPE OTHERS DO TO
YOU KNOW, WHEN SO MANY IN ANN
ARBOR ARE IN SUCH TREMENDOUS
PAIN, I THINK THAT THE CRUCIAL
THE CRUCIAL WAY THE ONLY PATH
THAT ANY PROMISE OF OF
COMMUNITY RESOLUTION,
OF COMMUNITY TOGETHERNESS EVEN
IN THE PRESENCE OF DIVISION
OF PEACE AND THAT IS TO TO
RECOGNIZE OUR COMMON HUMANITY
AND AS AS EACH OF US THINKS
THROUGH OF OUR EXPERIENCES AND
OUR CONNECTIONS AND OUR OUR
GRIEFS THAT AS WE SHARE AND AND
THOSE GRIEFS THAT WE THAT WE
RECOGNIZE THAT WE ARE NOT ALONE
IN THAT AND THAT WE MUST AS WE
GO FORWARD AS WE SPEAK OUR OWN
GRIEFS THAT WE MUST ALSO SHARE
AND ACKNOWLEDGE THE GRIEF
OF OTHERS.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST THE
FOLLOWING APPOINTMENT THAT WAS
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION AT THE DECEMBER
FOUR REGULAR SESSION TO THE
LESLI SCIENCE AND NATURE CENTER
BOARD OF DIRECTORS TERESA
POLASKI MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORDELL'S BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION ON FABER
POSED IT IS APPROVED WE HAD
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER SONG TAKEN BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
JUST A COUPLE JUST A COUPLE
OF ITEMS ON THE CONSENT AGENDA
THAT I JUST WANTED TO NOTE SOME
EXCITING EXCITEMENT ABOUT.
THE FIRST ONE IS C A FOUR AND
FIVE WHICH IS THE EXTENDING THE
A PORTION OF THE BORDER TO
BORDER TRAIL.
THIS HAS BEEN A LONG TIME
EFFORT.
THIS IS PART ONE OF A PART TWO
PROJECT TO EXTEND A TRAIL
THROUGH THE IN NATURE AREA AND
EVENTUALLY TO VANDERVEER
UNDERPASS.
SO THAT'S THAT'S AN EXCITING
BEGINNING AND WELL I'M GOING TO
LEAVE IT THERE.
GREAT.
THANKS.
IS IT HAS BEEN REMINDED THAT WE
DO HAVE A STAFF INTRODUCTION
WITH RESPECT TO 11 AND 12.
THANK YOU.
SEE 11 AND 12 I BELIEVE IT IS
THE INDOMITABLE IMROTH
.
MISS ROTH IS JOINING US ON SO
OH CONSOLE BELLEMARE.
>> SO I'M THE ONE THAT
REQUESTED FOR INTRODUCTIONS.
I'M NOT SURE IF SHE WANTED TO
GIVE A PREAMBLE OR IS SHE CAN
YOU HEAR ME OKAY.
YES, WE CAN HEAR MRS ROTH, I
BELIEVE YOU HAVE THE THE
QUESTION SAID YES CERTAINLY.
DID YOU I DON'T KNOW IF I
MISSED ANYTHING.
DID YOU WANT ME TO GIVE
INTRODUCTION FIRST OF THE
PROGRAMS OR JUST ANSWER
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS?
>> COUNCIL MEMBER ECKMANN I
THINK IT'S VERY DO YOU HAVE THE
QUESTIONS IN FRONT OF YOU FROM
COUNCILWOMAN AKMAN IF YOU COULD
JUST ANSWER THOSE?
>> CERTAINLY SO MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
QUESTIONS REVOLVED AROUND THE
USE OF THIRD PARTY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR BOTH THE
REBATE PROGRAM AS WELL AS THE
HOME ENERGY ADVISOR PROGRAM AND
THE COST OF EACH IS THAT IS
THAT CORRECT?
COUNCIL MEMBER?
YES.
UNDERSTANDING WHY AN EXTERNAL
CONTRACT IS THE RIGHT APPROACH
TO THIS AND THE RELEVANT THE
RELATIVE BALANCE OF THE
ADMINISTRATIVE COST TO THE
ACTUAL REBATE PROGRAM.
>> JUST IF YOU COULD KIND
OF WALK US THROUGH THAT NO
PROBLEM.
SO AS YOU KNOW, BOTH OF THESE
PROGRAMS ARE RIGHT FOR YOU AS
PART OF H0.
SO THE HOME ENERGY ADVISOR
PROGRAM IS NAMED IN THE EIGHT
YEAR PLAN THE FORTY FOUR
ACTIONS IT'S REFERRED TO AS A
CONCIERGE AND THE REBATE
PROGRAM IS EXPLICITLY CALLED
OUT IN THE CLIMATE ACTION TO
LAST NOVEMBER.
SO BOTH OF THEM ARE BROUGHT TO
YOU TODAY TO TO IMPLEMENT WHICH
WERE VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
REASON FOR THIRD PARTY
ADMINISTRATION EACH.
I'LL START WITH THE THE REBATE
ADMINISTRATOR SO THE REBATE
PROGRAM TOTAL BUDGET IS
APPROXIMATELY IN THE RANGE
OF ONE POINT EIGHT MILLION
DOLLARS AND THE COST TO
ADMINISTER THE PROGRAM IS
APPROXIMATELY 200000 PER YEAR.
SO IT'S I DON'T KNOW IN THE 10
PERCENT RANGE OR LESS I BELIEVE
OF ONE POINT EIGHTY EIGHT
MILLION PER YEAR AND IN TOTAL
BUDGET THE REST OF IT WILL BE
UTILIZED DIRECTLY FOR REBATES
FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY,
ELECTRIFICATION, SOLAR AND
RESILIENCE MEASURES FOR
RESIDENTS.
THE REASON THAT WE'RE GOING TO
ANNOUNCE THAT ADMINISTRATE FOR
THIS IS BECAUSE IT'S A BEST
PRACTICE.
WE'VE WORKED WITH MULTIPLE
DIFFERENT CITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY WHO HAVE REBATE
PROGRAMS TO LEARN FROM THEM.
FOR EXAMPLE DENVIR WHO'S A
REBATE ADMINISTRATOR HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH THEM TO LAUNCH
APPROXIMATELY EIGHT HUNDRED AND
THIRTY NINE HOME ENERGY REBATE
PROJECTS IN A YEAR AND WE'RE
LOOKING AT LAUNCHING TWENTY
FIVE HUNDRED OR SO REBATES IN A
YEAR SO THE SCALE OF THE
PROGRAM IS PRETTY BIG.
THE REBATE ADMINISTRATOR WILL
BE ACCEPTING REVIEWING
APPROVING APPLICATIONS WILL BE
REVIEWING CONTRACTORS AND
EQUIPMENT.
THEY WILL BE DOING INCOME
VERIFICATION FOR INCOME
QUALIFIED REBATES.
THEY'LL BE ORDERING VENDORS AND
PROVIDING QUALITY CONTROL.
THEY'LL IN RECEIPT
OF POTENTIALLY SENSITIVE
INFORMATION ABOUT RESIDENTS
INCLUDING INCOME QUALIFICATION
AND ALL OF THESE THINGS WE
BELIEVE ARE BEST SERVED FROM AN
EXTERNAL ADMINISTRATOR.
WE GO TO HAVE THE CAPACITY TO
SCALE IN THIS WAY AND TO MEET
SORT OF WHAT WE ANTICIPATE WILL
BE GREAT DEMAND AS WELL AS TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE THE PROGRAM
MEETS RESIDENT EXPECTATIONS IN
TERMS OF QUICK TURNAROUND
OF REBATES AND AND SO FORTH.
SO WE LOOK TO A THIRD PARTY WHO
HAS DONE THIS EXACTLY THIS SORT
OF PROGRAM.
SO WE ARE NOT INVENTING THE
WHEEL.
THE WHEEL HAS ALREADY BEEN
INVENTED AND WE ARE HIRING
THOSE WHO CAN ADMINISTER IT
MUCH MORE QUICKLY AND
EFFECTIVELY THAN WE CAN SIMILAR
WITH THE HOME ENERGY ADVISOR
WHICH WE'RE VERY, VERY EXCITED
ABOUT SAY ANYTHING WE ARE
ANTICIPATING HIGH DEMAND FOR
THIS SERVICE TO REDUCE THE
COMPLEXITY OF HOME
ELECTRIFICATION AND
DECARBONIZATION KIND OF A ONE
STOP SHOP WHERE RESIDENTS CAN
ACCESS EXPERTS WHO CAN HELP DO
HOME ASSESSMENTS TO GIVE THEM
INDIVIDUALIZED DECARBONIZATION
PLANS CONTRACTOR CONNECTIONS
IDENTIFY APPROPRIATE REBATES
AND INCENTIVES AND SO FORTH AND
THE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS WE
ANTICIPATE ACCESSING THIS
SERVICE GOES WELL BEYOND WHAT
WE COULD SCALE UP TO DO
IN-HOUSE.
THE FACT THAT WE ARE LOOKING TO
WALK KRONMILLER ENERGY SERVICES
TO HELP US WITH THIS PROGRAM
THEY HAVE DEEP EXPERIENCE WITH
RESIDENTIAL ENERGY PROGRAMS.
THEY ALSO HAVE A DEEP BENCH
OF BPI CERTIFIED ENERGY
ASSESSORS.
SO THERE SHOULD BE A SMOOTH
ROLLOUT REGARDLESS
OF FLUCTUATING DEMAND,
FLUCTUATING STAFFING AND SO
FORTH SO THAT RESIDENTS THAN
EVER CAN HAVE A MORE CONSISTENT
EXPERIENCE.
I COULD GO ON BUT THAT'S I
GUESS THAT'S THAT'S THE SHORT
VERSION.
THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
AGENA.
THANK YOU, MA'AM.
I JUST WANTED TO BRIEFLY CALL
OUT SEE A ONE AND TWO WHICH ARE
THE FIRST PROPERTIES FROM OUR
GREENBELT TO BE RESOLD UNDER
THE BUY SELL PROGRAM WHICH
WHICH IS HOPEFULLY GOING TO BE
A THIS WILL BE A REALLY GREAT
START AND STARTING TO PROVIDE
FARMERS NEW STARTING FARMERS
WITH ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE
FARMLAND.
ONE OF THE SUCCESSES OF OUR
GREENBELT IS THAT AS WE
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AROUND OUR
HOUSING CHALLENGES HERE IN THE
CITY THAT WE ARE STRIVING FOR
FOR INCREASED HOUSING WITHIN
THE CITY, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE ALSO DO IS PRESERVE
FARMLAND AND FARMLAND AROUND
THE HARBOR.
WE'VE PRESERVED SEVENTY OVER
SEVENTY SIX HUNDRED ACRES SINCE
TWO THOUSAND THREE.
AND I ALSO JUST WANT TO REALLY
THANK OUR STAFF, OUR GREENBELT
STAFF AND OUR GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION FOR THEIR
HARD WORK IN GETTING THE SALE
OF THESE FIRST TWO PROPERTIES
THROUGH THIS PROGRAM TO US THEY
TOOK THE SCORING OF THIS
OF THESE PROPERTIES INCREDIBLY
SERIOUSLY AND REALLY EVALUATED
IT ALL IN OUR PUBLIC COMMISSION
MEETINGS FOR FOLKS TO
PARTICIPATE SO THAT WE COULD
MAKE SURE THAT WE HAD SOME
REALLY STRONG FARMERS TAKING
THESE PROPERTIES AND HOPEFULLY
HAVING SUCCESS LONG INTO THE
FUTURE.
>> SO I THINK FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER I
JUST WANTED TO SPEAK TO WHAT WE
JUST HEARD ABOUT FROM MISS ROTH
AND THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION.
I MEAN WHAT I GATHER FROM WHAT
SHE SAID IS THE CONTRACT TO RUN
THE REBATE PROGRAM IS REALLY
GOING TO HELP US MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE KNOW WHAT THEY CAN TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF , NAVIGATE THAT
PROCESS, MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE
ARE QUALIFIED FOR THAT, MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE SUPPORTING
QUALIFIED RESIDENTS SO TO ME
THIS MAKES COMPLETE SENSE WITH
OUR AMBITIONS TO OFFER REBATES
ACROSS A NUMBER OF AREAS.
AND THEN AS FAR AS THE CONTRACT
WITH THE HOME ENERGY ADVISOR
PROGRAM, I'VE HEARD FROM A LOT
OF RESIDENTS THAT WANT HELP
NAVIGATING JUST HOW YOU GO
ABOUT INSTALLING A DIFFERENT
KIND OF HEATING SYSTEM IS ROTH
KNOWS ABOUT MY OWN PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE WITH THIS.
IT'S JUST QUITE CHALLENGING TO
JUST USE TRADITIONAL COMPANIES
IN THE AREA TO NAVIGATE THIS
AND THERE'S A LOT
OF MISINFORMATION AND SO I'VE
HEARD DIRECTLY FROM PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS
PROGRAM AND I'M EXCITED THAT
IT'S COMING.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I AM I TOO JUST WANT TO ECHO
VERY BRIEFLY MY ENTHUSIASM
ABOUT C11 K-12 THE ENERGY
CONCIERGE AND THE AND THE
ADMINISTRATION OF THE HOME
ENERGY ADVISOR PROGRAM WITH
WITH THE PASSAGE OF THE
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
COLLEGE BY THE COMMUNITY BACK
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO WE
OF COURSE ENABLED OUR EIGHT TO
ZERO UP DEPARTMENT THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION TO
ROLL OUT PROGRAMS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF ENCOURAGING AND
EMPOWERING RESIDENTS TO TO
THEMSELVES IMPROVE THE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY, THE ENERGY USE
WITHIN THEIR WITHIN THEIR HOMES
.
THESE TWO PROGRAMS THE THE
ROLLING OUT OF RESIDENTIAL
REBATES AND THE THE ENERGY
ADVISOR PROGRAM WILL BE AN
IMPORTANT AND SUBSTANTIAL STEP
IN THAT DIRECTION, PARTICULARLY
IN MY VIEW I'M EXCITED ABOUT A
REBATE PROGRAM BECAUSE THIS IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR RESIDENTS TO
HAVE A DOUBLE WIN WITH THE WITH
THE ADVISOR SERVICES LETTING
THEM KNOW WHAT REBATES PERHAPS
ARE AVAILABLE IN THE REBATE
THAT WE ARE GOING TO BE
OURSELVES PROVIDING WITH THE
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
KNOWLEDGE.
THIS WILL NATURALLY LAYER ON
TOP OF THE BIDEN HARRIS
ADMINISTRATION'S INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT REBATES WHICH ARE
ALREADY INCREDIBLY SUBSTANTIAL
AND TO ENCOURAGE HOMEOWNERS AND
OTHERS TO PURCHASE APPLIANCES
AND OTHER ENERGY, ENERGY,
ENERGY CREATION AND STORAGE
MATERIALS SO AS TO MAKE THEIR
HOMES AS CARBON FRIENDLY AS
POSSIBLE.
IT'S A VISIONARY PROGRAM BY THE
ADMINISTRATION AND I'M JUST SO
EXCITED THAT WE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR ARE ABLE TO UTILIZE OUR
OWN COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
MILLICH AS A MULTIPLIER TO TO
MAKE ANN ARBOR TAKE EVEN
GREATER STEPS TOWARDS OUR EIGHT
H0 ZERO GOALS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OR FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED WITH NINE
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT TO
SATISFY THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO A
ONE C TO SEE A FOUR C NINE C
TEN
WE WILL NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFICS SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
AT PUBLIC HEARINGS DO NOT NEED
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING MUST RELATE TO THE
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING THAT IS TO SAY THE
SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO
WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES TO SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES HERE IN THE ROOM AND
ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK HEAR YOUR
TIME WILL BE MONITORED BY THE
BUZZER IN FRONT OF YOU ON LINE
AND AT HOME.
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED IN
EACH CASE WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
IT WAS OBSERVED
THAT THERE ARE
FOLKS DOWNSTAIRS WHO ARE NOT
HERE AT PRESENT WHO MAY YET
WISH TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
HEARING I GUESS IN RESPONSE TO
THAT I'D JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT
THERE ARE SOME SPACES AVAILABLE
WHILE I'M NOT TAKING ACCOUNT
THAT I'M NOT IN CHARGE OF HOW
MANY PEOPLE CAN BE IN THIS
ROOM, I'LL OBSERVE THAT THERE
HAS BEEN SOME CLEAR OUT.
AND SO IF ANYONE DOWNSTAIRS IS
WISHING TO SPEAK AT ONE
OF THESE PUBLIC HEARINGS THERE
COULD WELL BE A SEAT FOR YOU IN
ANY EVENT, THE INTERNET IS A
GREAT AND WONDERFUL THING AND
PEOPLE FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK AT
OUR PUBLIC HEARINGS THROUGH THE
MAGIC OF ZOM AND AND THAT
EXTENDS OF COURSE TO OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN THE
BASEMENT, COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN
THE LOBBY.
>> I DON'T THINK ANYBODY IN THE
BASEMENT PUBLIC HEARING NO ONE
AN ORDINANCE TO ADD CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE LEAF BLOWER TO TITLE
SIX OF CITY CODE .
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN THE ROOM
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> PLEASE JUST COME ON UP.
>> YEAH BY ALL MEANS THE
PROTOCOL JUST COME UP SPEAK.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
BOARD MEMBERS I AM ASSURED BY
MY FELLOW MEMBERS THAT THIS
TOPIC IS NOT IMPORTANT BY THE
PRESENCE OF EVERYONE HERE.
HOWEVER, I DO HAVE SOME
THOUGHTS AND CONCERNS.
MY NAME IS CARSON.
I AM THE OWNER AND FOUNDER
OF THREE BROTHERS LAWN CARE.
I'VE BEEN WORKING IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR FOR THREE YEARS.
I AM ALL IN FAVOR OF ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS AT THIS
TIME I DO NOT FEEL LIKE THERE
IS AN ADEQUATE ALTERNATIVE.
I BELIEVE THAT SECTION SEVEN
FOR ITEM THREE SPEAK STRONGLY
TO THAT SUGGESTING THAT ANY
WORK AROUND RECREATIONAL
FACILITIES, GOLF COURSES,
PLAYING FIELDS CAN USE THE
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT THAT I
WOULD BE LIMITED TO NOT USING.
I FEEL THAT UNTIL THERE IS AN
ADEQUATE SOLUTION I REALLY
WOULD SUGGEST THAT THE COUNCIL
POSTPONE THIS UNTIL FURTHER
TIME.
THIS WOULD CAUSE A WOULD BE
FINANCIALLY CHALLENGING TO MY
BUSINESS.
I WOULD FACE ABOUT TWENTY FIVE
TO FORTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
IN LEAF BLOWER INVESTMENT AND
THAT'S NOT EVEN SOMETHING
THAT'S COMPARABLE TO WHAT WE'RE
USING RIGHT NOW.
WE HAVE ABOUT FIVE TO SIX
THOUSAND DOLLARS IN LEAF
BLOWING EQUIPMENT.
THE PURPOSE OF LEAF BLOWING
EQUIPMENT THAT WE USE IS TO DO
EXACTLY THAT OF PROTECT THE
SAFETY OF THE COMMON AREAS
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR MOST
COMMONLY USED CLEANING AFTER
MULCHING OR SMALL ROCK PROJECTS
WHERE THERE COULD BE SMALL
DEBRIS AND BLOWERS ARE USED TO
DO EXACTLY THAT OF PROTECT THE
AREAS FROM PEOPLE TRIPPING OR
HAVING UNCLEAN COMMON WALKWAYS
THAT IS IS WILL INCLUDE MY
THOUGHTS.
>> I HOPE THERE'S FURTHER
CONVERSATION AND CONSIDERATION
OF THIS TOPIC.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO COUNCIL JEFF DENHA WARD
ONE I CAME DOWN HERE BECAUSE I
WAS A CO-SPONSOR OF THE
ORIGINAL DOWNTOWN LEAF BLOWER
BAN A COUPLE OF YEARS BACK AND
MY TEST WAS THAT IT DIDN'T
REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE AND IT
DOESN'T MEAN WE SHOULDN'T DO IT
BUT IT DIDN'T SEEM TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE AND THIS GENTLEMAN
JUST SPOKE BEFORE ME BROUGHT UP
AN IMPORTANT POINT ABOUT THE
CARVE OUT FOR CERTAIN TYPES
OF PROPERTIES AND I LIVE ACROSS
FROM NORTH SIDE PARK AND NORTH
SIDE SCHOOL AND ASIDE FROM THE
CARVEOUT, THERE'S ALSO SOME
MENTION IN HERE ABOUT THE TIME
IT WAS IT WAS NICE TO SEE IT
GET CENTERED UP WITH THE
CURRENT NOISE ORDINANCE.
HOWEVER, THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
ALL SUMMER EVERY SUNDAY MORNING
AT EIGHT A.M. SHOWS UP TO MOW
AND LEAF BLOWN NORTH SIDE PARK
IN VIOLATION OF THIS NOISE
ORDINANCE AND ACTUALLY SOME
OTHER ONES THAT WE HAVE AND I
NEVER MADE THE CALL BECAUSE I
DON'T WANT TO TURN OUR CITY
INTO A LITTLE STAZI CROWD WITH
OUR WAY TO FIX.
BUT YOU KNOW, I DON'T LIKE IT
AND SO I WOULD LIKE THE CITY TO
TAKE CARE OF THEIR OWN BUSINESS
FIRST BEFORE THEY START PUT
DOWN THESE FOLKS I WAS AT THE I
CAN VOUCH FOR WHAT THIS GUY
SAYS SOMETIMES I USE A LEAF
BLOWER WHEN WE DO ROOFING
PROJECTS.
DO YOU HAVE TO KEEP IT SAFE UP
THERE ALL THE DUST OFF AND SO
WE JUST RUN UP THERE WITH A
BLOWER.
I HAVE A BIG EGO MOWER AND A
LINE TRIMMER AND FORTUNATE.
I FOUND HIM AT A YARD SALE FOR
SEVENTY FIVE BUCKS BECAUSE I
HEARD THEY'RE QUITE EXPENSIVE
AND SO I WANT TO FIND A ONE MY
ALMOST SERVICE FOR 30 YEARS
LEAF BLOWER I BOUGHT FROM A
CITY AUCTION WHEN I FIRST MOVED
BACK HERE IN THE NINETIES WHEN
THAT THING FINALLY DIED MY GAS
POWERED WHEN I WENT FOR A
ELECTRIC ONE TO MATCH MY
ECOSYSTEM AND THE ELECTRIC ONES
WERE TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY
DOLLARS AND THE PLUG IN ONE WAS
THIRTY BUCKS BUT I CAN'T BE
TRIPPING OVER CAUGHT YOU KNOW
AND I DIDN'T HAVE THE TWO
HUNDRED BUCKS SO I OVERHAUL MY
GAS BILL AND I HOPE TO USE IT
FOR MANY YEARS NOW ONE THING I
WANT TO SAY I'VE HEARD A FEW
THINGS WHERE IT'S BEEN SAID OH
THE EXHAUST IT'S THE SIZE OF A
PENCIL ON THE STEEL LEAF
BLOWERS IT MAKES MORE YOU KNOW
EMISSIONS THAN A FORD F ONE
FIFTY WHATEVER THAT IS AND THAT
SPEAKS MORE TO THE QUALITY AND
THE WORK THAT THE ENGINEERS AT
FORD HAVE DONE INTO THEIR
EMISSION CONTROLS THAN IT DOES
TO THE POLLUTION OF THESE LEAF
BLOWERS.
I JUST WANT TO GET THAT
STRAIGHT.
THESE THINGS DON'T MAKE MUCH
NOISE AT ALL.
SO I JUST YEAH, I'M HAPPY TO
SEE THINGS THAT HAPPENED AND
THE PREVIOUS AUDI COME FORWARD
AND I JUST FELT I SHOULD COME
OUT AND SPEAK TO THAT.
I DON'T DISCOURAGE THIS KIND
OF THING AND I ALSO HOPE TO SEE
THE PILOT PROGRAM SUBCOMMITTEE
AND THE OFFICE OF THE
OMBUDSPERSON COME FORWARD TO
OTHER RESOLUTIONS THAT WERE
PASSED ON PREVIOUS COUNSELS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING FROM THE EXPECT
A RESOLUTION FOR I'M SORRY
MA'AM WITH THIS WE CANNOT HAVE
CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS IN THE AUDIENCE AT THIS
TIME.
>> PEOPLE THERE WAS NO SUCH
PROMISE.
>> MA'AM, I'M SORRY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
GO AHEAD, PLEASE.
HELLO AND THANK YOU FOR
ALLOWING ME TO SPEAK IN SUPPORT
OF PALESTINE.
MA'AM MA'AM, THIS IS NOT AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK ABOUT
PALESTINE.
THIS IS A PUBLIC HEARING WHICH
RELATES EXCLUSIVELY TO AN
ORDINANCE TO ADD CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE LEAF BLOWERS TO THE CITY
COUNCIL TO TO THE CITY CODE .
THIS IS NOT AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
OTHER SUBJECT MATTERS TO COME
UP OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING AGAIN TO RESTATE
WITH RESPECT TO AN AUDIENCE TO
ADD CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE LEAF
BLOWERS TO TITLE SIX OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT NABIL YES
.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR CAN
GOBBER SECOND WORD.
YEAH I CAN'T SPEAK ON LEAF
BLOWERS WITHOUT ACKNOWLEDGING
THE MUCH MORE URGENT CONCERNS
AROUND THE DEATH AND
DESTRUCTION HAPPENING IN GAZA
AS WE SPEAK.
THAT SAID, I COMMEND COUNCIL
MEMBERS KANALA MILLIONAIRE FOR
BRINGING THIS LEAF BLOWER
ORDINANCE FORWARD.
OBVIOUS REASONS FOR IT INCLUDE
THE EXTREME NOISE POLLUTION,
INCREDIBLY DIRTY EXHAUST AND
THE RESPIRATORY HEALTH EFFECTS
OF BLOWN DUST AND DEBRIS.
THIS IS AN OBSOLETE TECHNOLOGY
TWO-STROKE ENGINES LIKE AN
INDEPENDENT LUBRICATION SYSTEM
FOR OIL IS MIXED WITH FUEL.
THIS LEADS TO INCOMPLETE
COMBUSTION BUT UP TO A THIRD
OF THE FUEL SPEWED INTO THE AIR
AS AN AEROSOL USE.
MACHINES ARE RIGHT AND
POWERFUL.
THEY'RE CRAZILY INEFFICIENT AND
COULD BE POLLUTING.
THEY DON'T PUT OUT A LOT OF CO2
BUT INSTEAD HUGE AMOUNT
OF CARBON MONOXIDE, NITROGEN
OXIDES AND NON METHANE
HYDROCARBONS, NITROGEN OXIDES,
METHANE HYDROCARBONS,
HYDROCARBONS CONVERTED TO OZONE
WHICH IN THE LOWER ATMOSPHERE
IS A POWERFUL GREENHOUSE GAS.
SO YOU JUST HEARD ABOUT THE
FAMOUS STATISTIC THAT A
TWO-STROKE LEAF BLOWER EMITS
NEARLY THREE HUNDRED TIMES MORE
NONMETAL HYDROCARBONS THAN IN A
GIVEN YEAR TIME THEN FOR
DIFFERENT FIFTY RAPTOR THAT IS
NOT DUE TO ANY FUEL EFFICIENCY
FOR THE RAPTOR.
IT'S DUE TO THE OBSCENE
POLLUTION PUT OUT BY THESE
BELCHING MONSTERS.
THESE ARE NOT DEVICES THAT ADD
TO THE SAFETY OF THE COMMUNITY
IN ANY WAY CONTRARY TO WHAT THE
GENTLEMAN FROM THE LAWN CARE
COMPANY SAID THEY DETRACT FROM
IT AND ALL THE WAYS I SPOKE
ABOUT AND THERE IS AN
ALTERNATIVE READILY AVAILABLE
ELECTRIC FOR EITHER RECORDED OR
BATTERY POWERED.
SO ELIMINATION OF THESE
STOKELEY FOR OUR CITY BESIDES
SPARING EVERYBODY THE WRONG
ENGINES AND THE BLOWING DEBRIS
WILL HAVE A POSITIVE CLIMATE
IMPACT.
THERE'S ANOTHER PROBLEM WITH
BLOWERS BESIDES THAT THEY
DAMAGE BIODIVERSE CITY FALLING
LEAVES, PROVIDE PROTECTION FOR
OVERWINTERING INSECTS AND
INSECT EXACTS ANY LEAF BLOWER
OR DISLODGED THE COVER HARMING
INSECTS WHICH IN TURN ARE
ESSENTIAL TO BIRDS AND OTHER
WILDLIFE NOTHING TO DO WITH
FALLING LEAVES MULCH THEM WITH
A MOWER IF YOU HAVE A TURF
GRASS LAWN WHICH IN FACT YOU
SHOULDN'T BUT THAT'S AN
ENTIRELY SEPARATE CONVERSATION
ANYWAY TO CONCLUDE I I GUESS I
DON'T MEAN IN THIS STATEMENT OR
IN ANY WAY TRIVIALIZE THE MUCH
MORE IMPORTANT CONCERNS THAT
ARE SHARED BY ALL THE PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM AND I WANT TO THANK
ALL OF THEM FOR FOR SHOWING UP
AND I HOPE AS MANY OF YOU AS
POSSIBLE GET HERE TONIGHT.
IS THERE ANYONE HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
SEE NO ONE IS THERE ANYONE
ONLINE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING HERE WE
KNOW WHO CALLERS ON THE LINE
CALL HER THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING AN EIGHT ZERO EIGHT
CRESTAR SIX ON MEET YOUR PHONE
.
MY NEIGHBORS AND CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS JOHN CALENDARED.
I LIVE IN ANN ARBOR FOR TWENTY
YEARS AND I'M THE ONE TO READ
THAT I'M ALL FOR YOUR PUBLIC
HEALTH PROFESSIONAL.
I FEEL STRONGLY THAT I'D
PROBABLY SHOULD BE BANNED FROM
USE IN ANN ARBOR FOR THESE
REASONS RAW DATA IS SIGNIFICANT
HAZARDOUS EMISSIONS INTO THE
ENVIRONMENT TO BE CREATED ALL
YEAR ROUND NOISE POLLUTION
WHICH NEGATIVELY IMPACT CITY
RESIDENTS, LANDSCAPING WORKERS
AND WILDLIFE POLICE THEY
BASTARDY UNDERLYING HEALTH
CONDITION IN CHILDREN AND
ADULTS WITH REGULATORY
ILLNESSES INCLUDING ASTHMA EPB
COVID-19 AND OTHER ILLNESSES
AND FOR THEY CREATE HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS FOR RESIDENTS WHO
EXERCISE OUTDOORS ON CITY
SIDEWALKS AND STREET NO
ACTIVITY IN OUR CLIMATE MOULAGE
I RECOMMEND TAVOR PROPOSING
THAT A BAN ON GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS BE CONSIDERED BY
COUNCIL IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
I AN UNFORTUNATE ENCOUNTER WITH
A LANDSCAPING COMPANY IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AS I WAS WALKING
MY DOG WHEN A GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWER FROM 20 FEET AWAY WAS
AIMED AT US AS WE WALKED BY THE
WHEN WHEN BOTH MY HOME AND INTO
MY MOUTH THANKFULLY MY DOG WAS
NOT IMPACTED BUT UNFORTUNATELY
THE EMPLOYER EMPLOYEE THE
LANDSCAPING COMPANY DID NOT
STOP WHEN I INDICATED MY
DISTRESS I ENTHUSIASTICALLY
SUPPORT COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE NOW
BACK AND I ARE SUPPORTING AN
ORDINANCE THAT WILL PRESERVE
AND OUR PROPERTY PROTECT ITS
RESIDENTS HELP AND PROTECT THE
ENVIRONMENT INCLUDING THE
CITY'S POPULATION AND ITS MANY
POLLINATORS GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS CREATING SUBSTANTIAL
PREVENTABLE ENVIRONMENTAL AND
PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARDS.
IT IS TIME FOR AN ARBOR TO DRAW
OVER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY
MUNICIPALITIES ACROSS THE US
THE LIMIT OR PROHIBIT THE USE
OF GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ADAM SAVAGE, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
>> YEAH.
HI THIS IS ADAM MISCAVIGE FROM
THE FOURTH WARD.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO ECHO THE
STATEMENT OF MR. GARBER THAT WE
REALLY HAVE MORE IMPORTANT
THINGS TO TALK ABOUT HERE.
BUT I THINK THIS IS A REALLY
SIMPLE, EASY AND
STRAIGHTFORWARD RESOLUTION AND
YOU SHOULD PASS TONIGHT.
I DON'T THINK IT NEEDS A WHOLE
LOT OF FANFARE OR DISCUSSION.
I THINK THIS IS LOW HANGING
FRUIT AND IT'S TOTALLY
REASONABLE AND LET'S JUST DO
IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> JOHN LONSTEIN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> YES, I WANT TO THANK THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO HAVE
PROPOSED THIS ORDINANCE AND
THOSE WHO WILL VOTE FOR IT.
I THINK THIS IS EXACTLY THE
KIND OF THING THAT THE COUNCIL
SHOULD BE DISCUSSING BECAUSE IT
HAS AN IMPACT ON THE HEALTH AND
SAFETY OF EVERYBODY IN ANN
ARBOR.
THE OTHERS HAVE SPOKEN TO SOME
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
WHICH ARE SIGNIFICANT.
IN ADDITION, I THINK EVERYBODY
WHO HAS GONE BY SOMEBODY USING
ONE OF THESE LEAF BLOWERS HAS
THOUGHT TO THEMSELVES, GEE,
THIS PERSON IS WEARING A
GASOLINE BACKPACK THAT CAN'T BE
GOOD AND IN FACT THAT'S NOT YOU
KNOW, SOME PEOPLE MAY THINK OH,
THIS IS JUST ONE OF THESE GOOFY
ANN ARBOR ORDINANCES BUT I WAS
NOT ALONE.
THERE ARE OTHER CITIES IN THE
COUNTRY THAT HAVE BANNED THESE
LEAF BLOWERS BECAUSE OF THE
HEALTH HAZARDS INCLUDING
WASHINGTON DC.
AND I THINK ONE THING THAT THAT
JUST CAN'T BE ESCAPE IS THAT
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THESE YARD
WORKERS ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING OUT THERE IN ALL
CONDITIONS ARE IMMIGRANTS FROM
CENTRAL AMERICA.
THESE PEOPLE ARE EXPLOITED
OFTEN.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT KIND OF WAGES
THEY MAKE BUT I'M SURE IT'S NOT
WHAT THEY SHOULD.
AND THESE THEY ARE PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T SPEAK.
THEY'RE DESPERATE FOR THESE
JOBS AND I THINK THEY WOULD
TELL US THAT THEY ARE HAPPY TO
NOT BE ABUSED BY HAVING TO WEAR
GASOLINE BACKPACKS AND BE
ENDANGERED EVERY DAY JUST
BECAUSE THEY'RE DOING THEIR
JOBS.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
I APPRECIATE WHAT THE OTHERS
WHO HAVE SPOKEN TO THE FACTS
HAVE SAID, ESPECIALLY THE
PROFESSOR IN PUBLIC HEALTH AND
I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO VOTE
FOR THIS AND I'M VERY GRATEFUL
THAT YOU'RE DOING THE JOB
OF WATCHING OUT FOR HEALTH AND
SAFETY.
>> THANK YOU.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING
IN FROM ALL THREE TO BE HONEST,
I WASN'T GOING TO TALK ABOUT AS
PUBLIC HEARING IT DOESN'T
REALLY AFFECT ME BUT THE VERY
PRECIOUS DEFENSE OF THE FLOW IS
COULD BE A LITTLE BIT A LITTLE
BIT IRRITATED ESPECIALLY OF GAS
BEING BECAUSE I WAS 11 YEARS
OLD WHEN I REALIZED THAT
GASOLINE LIFECO I HAD BEEN I
HAD BEEN USING ELECTRIC ONES AS
A CHILD HELPING OUT WITH GARDEN
CARE NOT ONLY FOR MY FAMILY BUT
FOR NEIGHBORS.
>> THE IDEA THAT WE ABSOLUTELY
NEED TO BURN MORE FOSSIL FUELS
PUT BEFORE THESE STRIKES BOTH
MY 11 YEAR OLD SELF AND MY
CURRENT 33 YEAR OLDS THOUGH IS
KIND OF RIDICULOUS AND SO I'M
GLAD TO SEE THE CITY DOING
THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
JOHN CALVERT, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD.
AND IN THE TO IN ORDER TO
OVERCOME YOUR IDIOT NEGATIVE
PART OF THE EVENING, I'M
GRATEFUL FOR OUR EMAIL.
I THANK THE PROGRAM FOR EVEN
THE TIMELINE COULD BE SHORTENED
FROM YEAR TO YEAR.
I APPRECIATE YOU TAKING THE
TIME AND THE ELEMENTS OF THE
ORDINANCE.
>> I ASK YOU TO DESCRIBE THE
IMPROVEMENTS IT WILL MAKE FOR
WORKERS, NEIGHBORS AND OUR
COMMUNITY AND ALL THE HUNDREDS
OF OTHER COMMUNITY TO PREPARE
FOR AND PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY
OF REDUCING POLLUTION AND OTHER
NEGATIVE GLAD REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS RAISED
SEE NO ONE THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO TO AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING PART
OF SECTION FIVE 10 PART TWO
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
THEN HARBOR ZONING OF FIVE
POINT NINE ACRES FROM PWP
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO R FOR A
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO FIVE TO ZERO PONTIAC TRAIL
IN TWO FIVE FOUR ZERO PONTIAC
TRAIL.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> HI THERE.
I'M GOING TO SPEAK TO THIS IS A
COUPLE OF BLOCKS UP THE STREET
FROM MY HOUSE.
>> THIS REALLY IS MOSTLY FOR
THE PUBLIC'S BENEFIT.
A LOT OF FOLKS COME IN, THEY
SAY WHY ARE WE GETTING THESE
PROJECTS THAT DON'T FIT IN WITH
SAY THREE TO ZERO PLAN OR OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS OR OUR
TRANSIT GOALS OR THESE OTHER
THINGS.
AND THE EXCUSE THAT WE ALWAYS
HEAR IS OH IT'S A BI RIGHT
PROJECT.
>> ONCE IT'S ZONED A CERTAIN
WAY THEY HAVE THE RIGHT TO
BUILD HOWEVER POORLY IT SUITS
OUR NEEDS.
>> SO THE ONLY OPPORTUNITY THAT
THIS BODY HAS TO GET THE KINDS
OF PROJECTS THAT WE WANT IN
THIS CITY THAT SUPPORT ALL
THOSE GOALS IS WHEN A DEVELOPER
ASK
FOR A REZONING WHEN
APPROACHED WHEN A PARCEL IS
ANNEXED INTO THE CITY.
AND SO IF WE GIVE AWAY A
REZONING WE CREATE A BY RIGHT
HODGETT AND THE DEVELOPERS
THEREBY ALLOWED TO BUILD
WHATEVER THEY WANT.
NOW THIS ONE'S ALL TANGLED UP
IN THIS PROJECT BECAUSE WE LET
THEM TAKE IT AND PARCELS AND
THIS IS ATTACHED TO SEVENTY
SOME ACRES THAT RIGHT NOW
STANDS AS THE GREENEST
REMAINING AND LARGEST
CONTIGUOUS GREEN SPACE ANN
ARBOR AND WE'RE GOING TO HEAR
SOME WHEN IT COMES TO THE PLAN
WE'RE GOING TO HEAR SOME EXCUSE
AS TO WHY THIS MAKES THAT
PROJECT BETTER.
>> BUT I WANT THE PUBLIC TO
KNOW THAT THIS BODY FAILED THEM
WHEN IT ALLOWED THE REZONING
OF THE OTHER 70 ACRES ADJACENT
TO THIS AND I STRONGLY
ANTICIPATE THEY ARE ABOUT TO
FAIL US AGAIN.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE I'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
.
THANK YOU, MR. KENT.
GARBER AGAIN.
SO I WENT BACK AND CHECKED AND
THIS IS THE FIFTEENTH TIME I'VE
SPOKEN ON THIS LARGE
DEVELOPMENT GOING BACK TO
DECEMBER TWENTY TWENTY ONE
ANNEXATIONS REZONING BROWNFIELD
SITE PLANS, ZONING VARIANCE
I'VE ONLY EVER ASKED FOR ONE
THING ALL ELECTRIC HEAT NO
FOSSIL GAS.
I'M GOING TO ADDRESS THE ZONING
ALTHOUGH INDIRECTLY.
FIRST OF ALL THERE ARE GOOD
THINGS ABOUT THIS PROJECT ABOVE
ALL THAT IT PROVIDES NEEDED
HOUSING BUT OVERALL THE VILLAGE
IS A FAILURE.
BOTH THE PUBLIC POLICY AND
PRIVATE IMAGINATION THE 440 YES
BURNING APARTMENTS WILL DUMP
TWO THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
THIRTY EIGHT METRIC TONS CO2
EMISSIONS IN THE ATMOSPHERE
EACH YEAR JUST FROM GET TAKEN
INTO ACCOUNT REDUCE DRIVING
EMISSIONS FROM CONVERTING
COMMUTERS INTO RESIDENTS DOES
REDUCE THAT NUMBER BUT ONLY BY
ONE THIRD AT MOST IT DOESN'T
CHANGE THE OVERALL PICTURE IN
ANY WAY.
WE SHOULD BE ELIMINATING BOTH
COMMUTES AND FOSSIL FUEL
HEATING NOT JUST ONE.
YOU MAY ARGUE THAT THE PERFECT
SHOULD NOT BE THE ENEMY OF THE
GOOD AND THAT COUNCIL MUST MAKE
TRADE OFFS THAT WE'RE BETTER
OFF WITH HOUSING EVEN GET
HEATED AND WITHOUT NORMALLY I
WOULD AGREE THAT THE CLIMATE
DEMANDS A DIFFERENT CALCULUS
BUT NO THAT CO2 STAYS IN THE
ATMOSPHERE FOR CENTURIES
HEATING THE PLANET.
SO OUR DECISION TO INSTALL NEW
FOSSIL FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE LIKE
THE ONE YOU'D BE TAKING TONIGHT
HAS A VERY LONG TAIL AT LEAST
20 GENERATIONS.
THAT'S THE REALITY OF THE
SCIENCE.
WHAT COULD WE POSSIBLY TRADE
OFF FOR THAT THAT WOULD BE
WORTH IT.
OK, THE LOOKING BACK WE SHOULD
HAVE DECLINED THE OWNERS
ORIGINAL ANNEXATION REQUEST
UNTIL THEY COULD FIND A
DEVELOPER WILLING TO MEET THE
CITY'S STANDARDS.
SUCH DEVELOPERS ARE OUT THERE
AND WANT TO BUILD IN ANN ARBOR.
MAYBE WE'D LOSE A COUPLE
OF YEARS OF HOUSING BUT WE
WOULD HAVE PREVENTED SEVERAL
CENTURIES OF PLANET HEATING
GREENHOUSE GASES.
IT'S NOT TOO LATE.
YOU SHOULD POSTPONE BOTH
RESIGNING INSIDE PLAN VOTE
TONIGHT AND ASK THE DEVELOPER
TO MEET WITH OSFI PERHAPS TO
IRAQ.
>> HE'S BECOME AN EXPERT ON
THIS SUBJECT AND MAYBE ALSO
WITH ENERGY COMMISSION CHAIR
KURT MACKENNA AND ENGINEER
WHO'S WORKED ON PRIVATE SECTOR
ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING PROJECTS
IN THE BOSTON AREA.
LET'S FIND A SOLUTION THAT WILL
MEET OUR CITY'S CLIMATE GOALS
WHILE STILL ALLOWING THIS
PROJECT TO GO FORWARD BECAUSE
WE DO NEED THE HOUSING.
BUT FIRST WE MUST STOP THE
BLEEDING FROM NEW CONSTRUCTION
IN TERMS OF GREENHOUSE GASES SO
WE CAN BEGIN THE MUCH HARDER
TASK OF CONVERTING OUR VAST
EXISTING BUILDING STOCK FROM
GAS FURNACES TO ELECTRIC HEAT
PUMPS USING PROGRAMS LIKE
REBATE PROGRAM THAT WAS
DISCUSSED EARLIER TONIGHT WHICH
IS AN EXCELLENT PROGRAM BUT
THAT'S WHERE OUR RESOURCES NEED
TO GO AND SO OUR SPEAKING ON
THIS PLAN AND THANK YOU THANK
ANYONE ELSE IN THE HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SKYLER GILLETTE.
I'M FROM ON WEST SIDE.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR JUST
OVER A YEAR.
I DO APOLOGIZE THIS WASN'T
NECESSARILY PLANNED BUT I WANT
TO ECHO THE CONCERNS WITH THE
WITH THE ZONING ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THE THE THE HEATING
REGULATIONS THIS SUMMER AS
YOU'RE ALL FAMILIAR WITH, WE
HAD NEARLY A MONTH OF SMOKE
FROM WILDFIRE AND RIGHT NOW
WE'RE A WEEK AWAY FROM
CHRISTMAS AND THERE IS NO SNOW
ON THE GROUND.
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT CLIMATE
CHANGE IS AN IMMEDIATE CONCERN
AND WE NEED TO STOP IT AND THAT
INCLUDES ELIMINATING THE
PROGRESSION OF NEW ZONING LAWS
WHICH WOULD RESULT IN PROPER
ZONING PROPOSITIONS WHICH WOULD
CREATE THESE HOUSES WITH THE
ELECTRIC HEAT I'M SORRY WITH
THE GAS HEAT AND I WOULD LIKE
TO CONCLUDE IN SAYING THAT NO
MATTER NO AMOUNT OF CO2
EMISSIONS CREATED BY THE
PROPOSITION IS GOING TO SURPASS
THE DAMAGE WHICH IS DONE RIGHT
NOW.
USE THE WARPLANES AND THE BOMBS
IN GAZA.
>> THANK IS THERE ANYONE SOME
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
SEE, NO ONE IS I KNOW THAT TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC ALEX, DO
YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
HI, THIS IS ALEX.
THE THREE OTHER AS MUCH AS I
RESPECT MR. GARDNER'S OPINION,
I THINK THAT HE'S GIVING A
FALSE DICHOTOMY TO SAY THIS IS
BETWEEN FOSSIL FUEL POWER
COMMITTED TO FOSSIL FUEL
POWERED BY HEATING.
I UNDERSTAND WHY HE SEES THAT
WITH FROM MY PERSPECTIVE THIS
IS THIS ISN'T A CHOICE BETWEEN
THOSE TWO OR ELIMINATING FOSSIL
FUELS WITH THIS THAT THE CHOICE
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL HAS
BEFORE IT IS REALLY BETWEEN
HOUSING WITH FOSSIL FUEL POWER
AND EATING AS THE AS THIS WOULD
AT HOUSING WITH WITH FOSSIL
FUEL POWERED COMMUTES PLUS
FOSSIL FUEL POWERED HEATING
LESS AND LESS EFFICIENT AT
BUILDING BONDS BECAUSE THEY
BECAUSE THE BUILDINGS ARE GOING
TO BE BUILT OUT OF THE
TOWNSHIPS USING LESS ENERGY
EFFICIENT TYPES OF BUILDINGS
THAT TYPICALLY GET BUILT IN THE
TOWNSHIPS VERSUS WITHIN AN HOUR
MY MY REQUEST TO THE CITY
THOUGH IS THAT LET'S NOT SETTLE
FOR FOR A YEAR.
I UNDERSTAND AS A CYCLADIC
ATTACHED TO IT BUT I SEE NO
REASON WHY WE SHOULD LIMIT THE
SORTATION TO TEN DWELLING UNITS
PER ACRE.
AS FOR EIGHT DOES WHY NOT JUST
ALLOW IT TO ALL THE WAY UP TO
OUR FAREED THANK YOU.
>> THANK
LUIS VASQUEZ.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YES.
GREETINGS UNIVERSITY COUNCIL
LUIS VASQUEZ I LIVE IN UPPER
LOWER TOWN IN THE FIRST QUARTER
PRACTICALLY AROUND THE CORNER
FROM THIS PROPOSED REZONING.
I JUST WANT TO SPEAK VERY
BRIEFLY IN FAVOR OF THE
REZONING AND WE ARE STILL IN A
RATHER SEVERE HOUSING CRISIS IN
ANN ARBOR AND IN MANY
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
AND THIS REZONING WILL ALLOW
SOME OF THAT CRISIS TO BE
ALLEVIATED.
>> HOWEVER, SMALL THAT MAY BE
AND I ENCOURAGE YOU TO SUPPORT
THE REZONING MY COUNCIL MEMBERS
IN THE FIRST WARD AND HOPE IT
PASSES TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
FOR THIS HEARING
A PUBLIC
HEARING WHICH WAS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER THREE RESOLUTION
APPROVED THE VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR SITE PLANNED AT ONE SEVEN
ONE ZERO DUVAN ROAD.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> HELLO, MY NAME IS RICH FINE
AND I LIVE IN FIVE.
I'M HERE REPRESENTING THE ALBER
CHAPTER OF CITIZENS CLIMATE
LOBBY CITIZENS CLIMATE LOBBY
OF ANN ARBOR OPPOSES THE
VILLAGE OF DENHA HARBOR PHASE
TWO SITE PLAN BECAUSE OF ITS
USE OF NATURAL GAS FOR SPACE
AND WATER HEATING INSTEAD
OF ELECTRIC HEAT PUMP
TECHNOLOGY IN TWENTY TWENTY OUR
COUNCIL UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED
THE EIGHT TWO ZERO PLAN WITH
THE GOAL TO ACHIEVE A JUST
TRANSITION TO CARBON NEUTRALITY
BY 2030 THAT WAS MORE THAN
THREE AND A HALF YEARS AGO IF
WE WERE ON TARGET FOR
IMPLEMENTING POLICIES TO REACH
THAT GOAL, THE VILLAGE PHASE
TWO SITE PLAN WOULD NOT BE
APPROVED IN ITS CURRENT FORM WE
WOULD NOT BE APPROVING
CONSTRUCTION WITH NATURAL GAS
APPLIANCES WITH THE USEFUL LIFE
OF 15 YEARS OR MORE WHEN OUR
DEADLINE FOR ACHIEVING
CARBON NEUTRALITY IS ONLY SEVEN
YEARS AWAY.
WE ALL KNOW THAT UNDER MICHIGAN
LAW IT'S DIFFICULT TO IMPOSE
RESTRICTIONS ON CONSTRUCTION
WITH NATURAL GAS.
BUT IN AN ERA WHERE INNOVATORS
AND ENTERPRISING PROBLEMS
SOLVERS FLOURISH, WE BELIEVE
THAT WE CAN FIND INCENTIVE AND
RESTRICTIONS THAT EITHER COULD
NOT OR WOULD NOT BE BLOCKED BY
STATE LAW.
DEVELOPERS WANT TO BUILD IN ANN
ARBOR AND BUILDING WITH ALL
ELECTRIC IS NOT STOPPING THEM.
MANY DEVELOPMENTS ARE BEING
PROPOSED AND APPROVED WITH ALL
ELECTRIC THEY'RE HAPPENING ALL
OVER THE PLACE NOT ONLY HERE
ALL OVER THE EAST COAST.
MOST NEW DEVELOPMENTS
ESPECIALLY FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ARE BEING BUILT ALL
ELECTRIC.
THERE'S NO CURRENT EVIDENCE
THAT DEVELOPERS OF MULTIFAMILY
COMMUNITIES WILL FLEE TO THE
TOWNSHIPS IF PRODDED TO BUILD
ALL ELECTRIC ESPECIALLY IF THEY
ARE INCENTIVIZED IN JUNE.
COUNCIL PASTOR SOLUTION FOR THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND STAFF TO
IDENTIFY INCENTIVES TO INCREASE
EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS WITH A
DEADLINE TO PRESENT THOSE
PROPOSED INCENTIVES BY DECEMBER
THIRTY.
>> FIRST WE LOOK FOR WE NEED
AND LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WILL HAVE
REAL IMPACT IN REDUCING THE USE
OF NATURAL GAS IN BOTH
MULTIFAMILY AND COMMERCIAL NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS DAVID GERGEN.
I'M FROM THE FIFTH WARD AND I'M
REPRESENTING WASH MY CLIMATE
REALITY.
I LIKE TO PIGGYBACK ON SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT RICH JUST
SAID.
ALSO SPEAKING ABOUT THE
APPROVAL RESOLUTION FOR THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR AND THE
BROADER ISSUE OF BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION.
WE KNOW THAT AFTER TALKS WITH
THE BUILDING COMMITTEE,
ROBERTSON BROTHERS AGREED TO
MAKE THE CONDOMINIUM SECTION
OF THE COMPLEX ALL ELECTRIC AND
THAT'S GREAT AND WE WANT TO
THANK EVERYBODY WHO IS INVOLVED
IN EFFECTUATING THAT CHANGE AND
I MEAN THAT SINCERELY BECAUSE
THAT'S A BIG STEP FORWARD.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE REST
OF THE COMPLEX WILL BE HEATED
BY NATURAL GAS FURNACES AND IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE THAT'S
SIMPLY NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
IT'S GREAT IN GENERAL TO HAVE A
GLASS HALF FULL ATTITUDE.
THAT'S A GOOD PHILOSOPHY TO GO
THROUGH LIFE WITH.
BUT THERE ARE SOME
CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH THAT
DOES NOT APPLY WHEN IT COMES TO
FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE WE'VE GOT
TO TREAT IT AS THE EMERGENCY
THAT IS HALF MEASURES WILL NOT
SUFFICE.
WE'RE NOT NAIVE.
WE KNOW THAT THE POWERS OF CITY
GOVERNMENT ARE LIMITED AND THAT
YOU CANNOT COMPEL BUILDERS TO
GO ALL ALL ELECTRIC BUT THAT
MAKES IT ALL THE MORE
IMPERATIVE TO BE INVENTIVE TO
FIND A WAY.
CERTAINLY THERE MUST BE A WAY
TO INCENTIVIZE GOING ALL
ELECTRIC AND RICH JUST TALKED
ABOUT THE FACT THAT THERE WAS A
RESOLUTION SOME TIME AGO THAT
YOU WOULD COME UP WITH SUCH
INCENTIVES THAT THEY WOULD BE
READY TO GO BY THE END OF THIS
MONTH.
THE IMPORTANT THING HERE IS
THAT WE NOT BE SATISFIED WITH
BABY STEPS WE'RE IN A SITUATION
WHERE WE MUST MAKE A CLEAN
BREAK WITH FOSSIL FUELS.
KEEP RECORDS ARE BEING
DEMOLISHED ON A MONTHLY BASIS
AND TWENTY TWENTY THREE WILL BE
THE HOTTEST YEAR ON RECORD BY
FAR.
SO TWENTY TWENTY THREE MUST BE
MUST ALSO BE THE POINT AT WHICH
WE NO LONGER ACCEPT INCREMENTAL
PROGRESS IN THE TRANSITION TO
CLEAN ENERGY AND CLEAN
BUILDINGS ALL IT MUST ALSO BE
THE YEAR THAT WE BREAK FROM THE
PAST AND THE OLD WAYS OF DOING
THINGS.
SO I'M JUST ASKING YOU AGAIN TO
FIND A WAY TO BE INVENTIVE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO ANYONE ELSE IN
THE HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
THOSE WERE THE TWO MOST
COMPELLING COMMENTS I THINK
I'VE HEARD ON THIS TOPIC FOR
YEARS.
I WAS ON COUNCIL AND TWO YEARS
HEREAFTER.
I THINK THEY'RE ABSOLUTELY
CORRECT.
>> THIS IS A LOSER OF A PROJECT
FOR THE CITY.
>> WE HAVE A TWO ZERO PLAN THAT
I VOTED TO MOVE FORWARD AND
THEN WE HAD A MILLAGE AND WE'RE
GIVEN THE CITY HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO
IMPLEMENT THIS PLAN AND WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN WHEN WE KEEP
PASSING ON DOING THAT AND WE
DON'T ACT QUICKLY ENOUGH IS ALL
THAT MONEY IS GOING TO BE GOING
TO BUY CARBON CREDITS AT THE
END SO WE CAN PAT OURSELVES ON
THE BACK AND PRETEND WE DID
SOMETHING AND I THINK THAT'S A
SHAME BECAUSE WE KNOW HOW THESE
MOLECULES INCREASE THE COST
OF LIVING SO WE TALK ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> YOU'VE GOT TO THINK ABOUT
THE VILLAGES TO THAT THE NOTION
THAT WE'RE AFRAID TO HOLD OUT
FOR SOMETHING BETTER IS JUST
BEYOND ME.
WE LIVE IN A STATE THAT HAS THE
PERFECT CLIMATE FOR GEOTHERMAL.
THE UNIVERSITY BUILDS
EVERYTHING NOW WITH GEOTHERMAL
.
THEY'RE MAKING IT THEY'RE
MAKING A DIFFERENCE.
THEY'RE STICKING TO THEIR
CLIMATE PLAN.
>> WHY CAN'T WE?
I THINK THERE'S BEEN ONLY LIKE
THREE OCCASIONS IN THE TWO
YEARS OR SO THAT THIS COUNCIL
SAID HERE THAT THEY'VE SAID NO
TO ANYTHING AND IT'S ALWAYS
BEEN TOO LITTLE INTERNAL
SQUABBLES.
THIS COUNCIL HAS VOTED YES.
YES, YES, YES, YES ON
EVERYTHING ESPECIALLY IN
HOUSING AND SO SOME PEOPLE OUT
THERE IN THE COMMUNITY HAVE THE
VIBE THAT THIS CITY IS BEING
SOLD AND NOT EVEN TO THE
HIGHEST BIDDER TO THE NEXT
BIDDER AND WE'RE GOING WELL WE
WANT HEAR SOMETHING BECAUSE ONE
OF MY COUNCIL REPS ISN'T EVEN
HERE TONIGHT AND SOME TIME WILL
COME DOWN HERE AND TALK ABOUT
THE DIG THROUGH I DID ON EVERY
SINGLE AGENDA OF BOARD AND
COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL
MEETING TO SHOW THAT THIS BODY
THE LAST TWO YEARS HAS MISSED
MORE MEETINGS IN AGGREGATE THAN
THE PREVIOUS TWENTY YEARS.
>> SO I'M SORRY THAT WORD ONE
THESE DISHES IN HERE.
SO BECAUSE SHE WAS GEARED UP
LAST WE CAN MAKE EXCUSES ABOUT
HOW GREAT THIS IS GOING TO BE
BUT IT'S NOT GOING TO BE GOOD.
IT'S GOING TO BE TRAGIC AND
IT'S GOING TO PUT ONE OF THE
FINAL NAIL IN THE COFFIN OF OUR
CLIMATE ACTION PLAN.
SO DON'T BE AFRAID TO SAY NO.
AND IF YOU'RE CONCERNED ABOUT
EMISSIONS, I SUGGEST YOU SAY
YES TO A CALL FOR CEASE FIRE
BECAUSE ALL I SEE WHEN I LOOK
AT THE DRONE FOOTAGE FROM GAZA
ARE AC UNITS THAT HAVE BEEN
SPLIT UP INTO THE OZONE KILLING
.
THEY'RE BOMBED WITH AMERICAN
BOMBS.
MR CLIMATE WILL STAY TO A CEASE
FIRE.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC MEETING, THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
SEE NO ONE IS THERE ANYONE ON
MR. HARPER?
MY APOLOGIES.
THE THAT'S OK.
YOU'VE HEARD ME SPEAK 16 TIMES
IN THIS PROJECT.
I DON'T BLAME YOU FOR WANTING
NOT TO HEAR ME AGAIN AND NOT
I'M IMPLYING THAT YOU WERE I
KNOW YOU'VE BEEN VERY GOOD
ABOUT HEARING MY COMMENTS OVER
THE YEARS AND THE VILLAGE I'M
NOT SAYING TONIGHT TO SAY NO TO
THIS PROJECT.
I'M SAYING DELAY IT ONE COUNCIL
MEETING HAVE THE ROBERTSON
BROTHERS TEAM SIT DOWN WITH I
AND TRY TO FIND A SOLUTION
BECAUSE THIS IS REALLY PUTTING
NEW FOSSIL FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE
IN PLACE IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
TO ME MAKES NO SENSE FROM OUR
CLIMATE SCIENCE POINT OF VIEW
AND I LIKE THE ROBERTSON
BROTHERS TEAM AND THEY WANT ME
WITH YOU.
THEY'VE MET WITH ME AND THE
OTHER MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY.
THEY ARE GOOD PEOPLE AND THEY
HAVE THEIR REASONS FRANKLY FOR
GOING WITH GAS.
THE REGIONAL DEVELOPERS ARE NOT
TOLL BROTHERS IN ANY PROJECT
THIS BIG CARRIES RISKS EVEN IN
THE HOUSING MARKET WAS HOTTER
THAN ARBOR'S FROM YOUR POINT
OF VIEW WHY AT RISK BY GOING
ALL ELECTRIC THEY SEE A SUPPLY
CHAIN UPFRONT COST RISK A
CONTRACT A RISK BECAUSE MANY
SUBS JUST LIKE UNFAMILIAR
SYSTEMS ALL OVER THE WORK
ATTENDANT UTILITY COST RISK
OVERBLOWN BUT THERE'S SOMETHING
THERE AND A CONNECTION RISK
WHICH IS VERY REAL YOU JUST TO
SIMPLY GO WITH GAS GET THIS
KIND OF THINKING IS KEEPING OUR
CITY OUR COUNTRY AND OUR ENTIRE
WORLD FROM MAKING PROGRESS ON
CLIMATE.
THERE ARE DEVELOPERS LIKE THE
SAME GROUP THAT'S BEHIND THE
BAR PROJECT THAT APPROVED LAST
MONTH.
THEY HAVE ACCEPTED OR MITIGATED
THE ADDITIONAL ECONOMIC RISK
OF GOING ELECTRIC.
THAT'S ANOTHER WAY OF BUILDING
ROBERTSON BROTHERS NEEDS TO BE
THERE NOW THIS PROJECT IS TOO
BIG AND TOO IMPORTANT TO LET IT
MOVE FORWARD WITH GAS.
WE MUST PUSH THEM ON THIS.
>> I APPRECIATE MR. KIRK'S
COMMENTS MENTIONING THE HUNDRED
SIXTY FOUR FOR SALE UNITS THAT
WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS
BUT I'M NOT AS TERRIBLE AS HE
IS ABOUT GETTING ROBERTSON GOT
HIS CREDIT FOR THAT.
IN FACT, THE PUBLIC IS PAYING
FOR THOSE HEAT PUMPS AND FOR
THE SOLAR STREETLIGHTS AND THE
SOLAR CLUBHOUSE THROUGH THE
GROUND FLOOR PLAN A NON
ENVIRONMENTAL PORTION TWO POINT
NINE MILLION DOLLARS WORTH
INCLUDING CARRYING COST.
THAT'S TWO POINT NINETY TWO
POINT NINE MILLION ACCORDING TO
CITY COUNTY SCHOOLS AND LIBRARY
.
I THINK THAT'S A VERY BAD
PRECEDENT BECAUSE WE SHOULDN'T
BE PAYING DEVELOPERS TO DO
THINGS THEY SHOULD BE DOING
ALREADY AND THAT MANY ARE WHICH
ARE WAITING FOR A DIFFERENT
DEVELOPER WILLING TO MEET OUR
COMMUNITY STANDARDS AND IT'S
POSSIBLE ALTHOUGH IT'S THE
ELEVENTH HOUR THAT ROBERTSON
BROTHERS COULD END UP BEING A
DEVELOPER, I THINK YOU DESERVE
GIVE THEM A CHANCE AND THE
PUBLIC THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
>> ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI, THIS IS ALEX AGAIN.
I'LL KEEP MY COMMENTS SHORT BUT
I I'VE SAID I'VE SAID BEFORE
I'M NOT A HUGE FAN OF THIS FAN
BUT I THINK IT MIGHT BE ABOUT
THE BEST WAY TO GET I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE MORE DENHA TALLER
BUILDINGS ETC. AND I WOULD LIKE
TO SEE THE CITY COUNCIL PUTTING
IT IN ORDINANCES AND CHANGES TO
THE DEVELOPMENT CODE THAT THAT
INCENTIVE INCENTIVIZE THAT THAT
THAT THOSE ARE MORE EFFICIENT
USES OF THE LAND.
THOSE ARE MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT
ETC. I DON'T LIKE THAT THIS
ISN'T ALL ELECTRIC BUT I THINK
THAT THE ALTERNATIVE IS WORSE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> OH YES I DO.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
LUIS VASQUEZ FROM UPPER LOWER
TONE.
I AGREE WITH MANY OF THE
SPEAKERS ABOUT THE NEED FOR
MORE ELECTRIFICATION
OF DEVELOPMENT GOING FORWARD IN
ANN ARBOR.
AND I WOULD JUST LIKE TO POINT
OUT THAT CURRENTLY MOST OF THE
ELECTRICITY GENERATED BY THE IN
PARTICULAR COMES FROM FOSSIL
FUELS AS WELL.
SO I MEAN THESE THESE ARE
INCREDIBLE TRADEOFFS THAT WE'RE
DEALING WITH.
BUT ONCE AGAIN I SEE THE NEED
FOR MORE HOUSING OF ALL KINDS
IN ANN ARBOR WE NEED THE
DEVELOPMENT OF MORE HOUSING
OF ALL KINDS AND I THINK THAT
TAKES PRECEDENCE IN THIS CASE.
>> IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE AND
I'D LIKE ALSO TO SAY I'M REALLY
DISGUSTED WITH WHAT JUSTIN JUST
HAD TO SAY.
I THINK THAT'S PROBABLY
GRANDSTANDED THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE FOR THIS DURING
ZINO ON THIS PUBLIC THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US TO WORK
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF DECEMBER ONE IN THE REGULAR
OF DECEMBER FOUR MAY HAVE
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
EMOTIONAL MOTION PLEASE TO
OF DECEMBER FOUR MAY HAVE
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
EMOTIONAL MOTION PLEASE TO
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SAYING
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
ABOUT HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SAYING
OF THE MINUTES FAVOR POST THE
ABOUT HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION
MINUTES ARE APPROVED BY ONE
OF THE MINUTES FAVOR POST THE
AUDIENCE TO ADD CHAPTER FIFTY
MINUTES ARE APPROVED BY ONE
FIVE LEAF BLOWERS TO TITLE SIX
AUDIENCE TO ADD CHAPTER FIFTY
OF THE CODE THE STEPHEN HARPER
FIVE LEAF BLOWERS TO TITLE SIX
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL
OF THE CODE THE STEPHEN HARPER
SELECTED BY COUNCIL MEMBER HIRE
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE BE ONE
SELECTED BY COUNCIL MEMBER HIRE
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL, I'LL BE
DISCUSSION PLEASE BE ONE
BRIEF.
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL, I'LL BE
I JUST WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE
BRIEF.
WHO CAME OUT TO SPEAK TONIGHT
I JUST WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE
AND ANY OF THE NUMBER OF THE
WHO CAME OUT TO SPEAK TONIGHT
TOPICS THAT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT
AND ANY OF THE NUMBER OF THE
AND WANTED TO ADDRESS FEEDBACK
TOPICS THAT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT
THAT WE RECEIVED REGARDING WHY
AND WANTED TO ADDRESS FEEDBACK
IS THE ROLL OUT SO LONG AND WHY
THAT WE RECEIVED REGARDING WHY
ISN'T THE PERIOD SHORTER AND WE
IS THE ROLL OUT SO LONG AND WHY
REALLY WANTED TO ALLOW TIME
ISN'T THE PERIOD SHORTER AND WE
ADDRESSING THE SMALL BUSINESS
REALLY WANTED TO ALLOW TIME
OWNER THAT WAS HERE KNOW
ADDRESSING THE SMALL BUSINESS
GENTLEMAN STILL HERE BUT WE
OWNER THAT WAS HERE KNOW
GAVE A LOT OF CAREFUL
GENTLEMAN STILL HERE BUT WE
CONSIDERATION TO MAKING SURE
GAVE A LOT OF CAREFUL
THAT THIS DID NOT CAUSE AN
CONSIDERATION TO MAKING SURE
ECONOMIC HARDSHIP ESPECIALLY TO
THAT THIS DID NOT CAUSE AN
SMALL BUSINESSES.
ECONOMIC HARDSHIP ESPECIALLY TO
SO THAT WAS THE TRADE OFF IN
SMALL BUSINESSES.
TERMS OF ALLOWING THEIR USAGE
SO THAT WAS THE TRADE OFF IN
LONGER BUT DOING SO WITH
TERMS OF ALLOWING THEIR USAGE
MINDFULNESS AROUND SMALL
LONGER BUT DOING SO WITH
BUSINESS OWNERS IN THE CITY.
MINDFULNESS AROUND SMALL
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
BUSINESS OWNERS IN THE CITY.
COUNCIL REGARDING OTHER OH I
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
THANK YOU MAYOR.
COUNCIL REGARDING OTHER OH I
>> I WANT TO KEEP MY COMMENTS
THANK YOU MAYOR.
BRIEF AS WELL.
>> I WANT TO KEEP MY COMMENTS
BUT I WANTED TO SPEAK TO YOU
BRIEF AS WELL.
KNOW, I DO BELIEVE THAT THIS
BUT I WANTED TO SPEAK TO YOU
ORDINANCE IS GOING TO MAKE OUR
KNOW, I DO BELIEVE THAT THIS
COMMUNITY HEALTHIER, CLEANER.
ORDINANCE IS GOING TO MAKE OUR
IT'S MORE IN LINE WITH OUR
COMMUNITY HEALTHIER, CLEANER.
VALUES.
IT'S MORE IN LINE WITH OUR
>> I ALSO DO HEAR THE VERY REAL
VALUES.
CONCERNS ABOUT FINANCIAL BURDEN
>> I ALSO DO HEAR THE VERY REAL
.
CONCERNS ABOUT FINANCIAL BURDEN
THAT'S WHY A RESOLUTION I PUT A
.
RESOLUTION FORTH THAT WAS
THAT'S WHY A RESOLUTION I PUT A
UNANIMOUSLY PASSED BY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION FORTH THAT WAS
TITLE RESOLUTION TO LAUNCH
UNANIMOUSLY PASSED BY COUNCIL
EDUCATION AND ENGAGEMENT
TITLE RESOLUTION TO LAUNCH
INITIATIVES IN SUPPORT
EDUCATION AND ENGAGEMENT
OF TRANSITION TO ALL ELECTRIC
INITIATIVES IN SUPPORT
LEAF MAINTENANCE AND
OF TRANSITION TO ALL ELECTRIC
ESSENTIALLY IT INCLUDES THAT
LEAF MAINTENANCE AND
THERE IS GOING TO BE BOTH AN
ESSENTIALLY IT INCLUDES THAT
EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN THAT WILL
THERE IS GOING TO BE BOTH AN
LAUNCH NEXT YEAR AND A BULK BUY
EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN THAT WILL
PROGRAM FROM OUR OFFICE
LAUNCH NEXT YEAR AND A BULK BUY
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
PROGRAM FROM OUR OFFICE
INNOVATIONS WHERE THEY WILL
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
PURCHASE ALL ELECTRIC LAWN
INNOVATIONS WHERE THEY WILL
EQUIPMENT INCLUDING LEAF
PURCHASE ALL ELECTRIC LAWN
BLOWERS.
EQUIPMENT INCLUDING LEAF
AND I ENCOURAGE THE GENTLEMAN
BLOWERS.
WHO SPOKE PREVIOUSLY WHO OWNS
AND I ENCOURAGE THE GENTLEMAN
THE BUSINESS TO LOOK OUT FOR
WHO SPOKE PREVIOUSLY WHO OWNS
THAT AND PARTICIPATE IN IT
THE BUSINESS TO LOOK OUT FOR
BECAUSE IT WILL HOPEFULLY ALLOW
THAT AND PARTICIPATE IN IT
RESIDENTS OF SMALL BUSINESSES
BECAUSE IT WILL HOPEFULLY ALLOW
TO PURCHASE THIS EQUIPMENT AT A
RESIDENTS OF SMALL BUSINESSES
CHEAPER RATE.
TO PURCHASE THIS EQUIPMENT AT A
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
CHEAPER RATE.
DISCUSSION FAVOR POSED.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
IT IS APPROVED B TO AN AUDIENCE
DISCUSSION FAVOR POSED.
TO AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING
IT IS APPROVED B TO AN AUDIENCE
PART OF SECTION FIVE THAT
TO AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING
TURNED OUT TO HAVE CHAPTER
PART OF SECTION FIVE THAT
FIFTY FIVE.
TURNED OUT TO HAVE CHAPTER
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE IS GIVEN
FIFTY FIVE.
ARBOR ZONING OF FIVE POINT NINE
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE IS GIVEN
ACRES TO THE TOWNSHIP DISTRICT
ARBOR ZONING OF FIVE POINT NINE
TO R FOR A MULTIFAMILY DWELLING
ACRES TO THE TOWNSHIP DISTRICT
DISTRICT TO FIVE TO ZERO
TO R FOR A MULTIFAMILY DWELLING
PONTIAC TRAIL AND TWO FIVE FOUR
DISTRICT TO FIVE TO ZERO
ZERO PONTIAC TRAIL MOVE BY
PONTIAC TRAIL AND TWO FIVE FOUR
CATHAR SONGS BY KELTS MEMBER
ZERO PONTIAC TRAIL MOVE BY
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B
CATHAR SONGS BY KELTS MEMBER
TO CAST MEMBER BRAKE'S
SO WE'VE
HEARD SOME COMMENTS AND
QUESTIONS AROUND AND REQUESTS
THAT WE MIGHT POSTPONE THIS
REZONING TO WORK FURTHER WITH
THE DEVELOPER AND I WONDERED IF
I MEAN I DID WANT TO POINT OUT
I KNOW SOME OF THE SPEAKERS
KNOW THIS THAT NONE OF OUR WE
WERE NOT ALLOWED BY BUILDING
CODE TO REQUIRE ALL ELECTRIC.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'S THAT'S
THAT'S NOT PERMITTED REGARDLESS
OF THE OF THE ZONING CATEGORY.
BUT I THOUGHT STAFF MIGHT BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND ON THIS FOR THOSE
WHO ARE LISTENING IN TERMS
OF THAT QUESTION, MR. TONY,
PLEASE MR. KOWALSKI SHOULD BE
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
IF ANY MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
YES.
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT QUESTION
REGARDING IT WAS REGARDING THE
UNIFICATION OF THE PROJECT.
YES.
YEAH, THAT'S WHAT THEY DID.
SO AS AS I THINK COUNCILOR WAS
AWARE AND WE DID POINT OUT
DURING THE EARLIER DISCUSSIONS
THAT THE THERE IS A LARGE
COMPONENT OF THE RENTAL I'M
SORRY NOT OF THE RENTS OF THE
FOR SALE UNITS THAT WERE
AVAILABLE ON THE PREVIOUS
FLIGHT PLAN THAT WAS APPROVED.
THOSE ARE ALL ELECTRIC.
THOSE WILL BE ALL OF THE NEW
APARTMENT BUILDINGS AS IS
INDICATED ARE NOT THEY DID
REACH OUT TO OUR OFFICE OF THE
OSCE DURING THE FIRST PHASE AS
WELL AS THE SECOND PHASE.
I CAN'T SPEAK TO SPECIFICALLY
WHY THEY DID NOT AGREE TO
ELECTRIFY THE SECOND PHASE BUT
I KNOW THAT THEY DID HAVE
FEELINGS REGARDING THE BECAUSE
THE SECOND PHASE THE PART WHAT
WILL BE APPROVED ON THE SITE
PLAN TONIGHT ARE RENTAL
APARTMENTS.
I THINK THERE IS SOME FEELING
THAT THERE WAS A COST
IMPLICATION BEHIND THAT.
I KNOW THAT THE DEVELOPER IS
AVAILABLE THEY ARE VIRTUAL
TONIGHT THAT YOU COULD CALL
THEM UP IF YOU DO WANT
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
REGARDING EXACTLY WHY WE'RE
ABLE TO PURSUE THE
ELECTRIFICATION.
THANK YOU.
THANKS, COUNCILOR BRINGS YOU
STILL THE FLOOR.
I GUESS THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO TO HEAR FROM THE DEVELOPER
IF THEY'RE WILLING TO TO SPEAK
TO THAT QUESTION IN ISRAEL.
>> WELL, I BELIEVE IT'S TRUE.
>> PLEASE
SLOGANEER
.
>> YES, WE CAN.
NIC ROBERTSON HOMES.
GOOD EVENING.
SO THE QUESTION WE HAVE AGREED
TO FORCE FOR THE FOR SALE UNITS
TO BE ALL ELECTRIC.
YOU KNOW, THIS HAS BEEN A VERY
WELL LITIGATED PROJECT TIMES.
I'M WITH MR GARBA, MR FINE AND
AGAIN WE HAVE AGREED TO THE ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOUR TOWN
HOMES AS ALL ELECTRIC.
WE'VE ACTUALLY BEEN PART
OF THEIR THEIR GROUP
DISCUSSIONS AND I THINK HAVE
HELPED KIND OF YOU GIVE THEM
OUR PERSPECTIVE FROM A
DEVELOPER STANDPOINT IT IS COST
IMPLICATIONS PARTICULARLY WITH
THIS LAST PHASE HERE WHICH ARE
SMALLER UNITS AND WE'VE
PROVIDED DATA I KNOW THEY
ALREADY SOME OF THE SOME
OF THOSE NUMBERS BUT EVEN THEY
AGREE THAT IT IS MORE EXPENSIVE
FOR ALL ELECTRIC AND PARTICULAR
WITH THESE THIS IS OUR PROPOSAL
TO MOVE FORWARD WITH GAS FOR
JUST GSB THE COOKING.
WE HAVE AGREED ALSO TO
PREEMPLOYMENT TO HAVE A SWITCH
THAT'S EVERYTHING FOR ALL
OF THE APARTMENT UNITS OF ADD
AND SOMETHING WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT AS WELL.
SO I'M HAPPY TO GO OVER SOME
OF THE DETAILS OF THE PROJECT.
I THINK PEOPLE INVOLVED KNOW
VERY WELL THAT AS WELL.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANKS.
YOU WERE CUTTING OUT A LITTLE
BIT IN THAT I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT I UNDERSTOOD THAT
IT'S THE PROJECT IS GOING TO BE
DID YOU SAY IT'S GOING TO BE
SIZED FOR A FUTURE TRANSITION
TO ELECTRIC POWER IS THAT WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IT IS YES.
>> WE WILL CREATE ALL THE UNITS
OR FUTURE CONNECTION TO ALL
ELECTRIC.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I'M SORRY COUNCILOR IA THE
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO TAKE A MINUTE TO
NOTE THE GREAT BENEFIT THAT WE
WILL GET FROM THIS REZONING TO
ADD ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
ADDITIONAL UNITS TO THIS
PROJECT OVERALL UH BRINGING THE
TOTAL TO SIX HUNDRED FOUR I
BELIEVE ON THE TOTAL SITE WE
HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS WE NEED
TO BUILD AS MUCH HOUSING AS WE
CAN AS QUICKLY AS WE CAN IN THE
CITY WE ARE TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF HOUSING UNITS SHORT AND WE
NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE DO
NOT LET THE PERFECT BE THE
ENEMY OF GOOD HERE WE IN
ADDITION I WANT TO NOTE THAT AS
A COUNCIL WE ARE ADDRESSING THE
ISSUE OF NATURAL GAS IN OUR
COMMUNITY FROM A MUCH MORE
HOLISTIC STANDPOINT.
WE HAVE RECENTLY BEGUN
NEGOTIATIONS ON A NEW HEATING
FRANCHISE FOR THE CITY FOR
THOSE WHO ARE NOT FAMILIAR WITH
WHAT THAT MEANS RIGHT.
>> OUR HEATING FRANCHISE IS A
GAS FRANCHISE WITH DTT.
>> IT IS UP IN TWENTY TWENTY
SEVEN AND WE HAVE BEGUN
NEGOTIATIONS TO TRANSITION TO
TRANSITION TO A GAS FRANCHISE
WITH DTT TO A GEOTHERMAL
FRANCHISE WITH AN ENTITY TO BE
DETERMINED POTENTIALLY
POTENTIALLY ANOTHER ONE.
THE POINT IS THAT WE NEED TO
PHASE OUT NATURAL GAS IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND WE NEED TO DO IT
FROM A COMMUNITY WIDE
STANDPOINT AND WE WILL DO THAT
AND IT WILL BE A LONG AND
CAREFUL TRANSITION.
BUT THAT WORK IS IS ACTIVELY
BEING DONE AND SO I DON'T WANT
TO LEAVE PEOPLE WITH THE
IMPRESSION THAT THAT THAT IS
NOT HAPPENING.
THAT IS AND WITH THAT SAID, I'M
ENTHUSIASTICALLY SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT.
>> COUNCILOR.
>> YEAH, I WAS JUST HOPING THAT
THE DEVELOPER COULD SPEAK A
LITTLE BIT MORE TO THE COST
IMPLICATIONS OF MAKING THIS
PARTICULAR PORTION ALL ELECTRIC
OR I'D BE HAPPY TO AND I DON'T
HAVE THE EXACT COSTS IN FRONT
OF ME AND OF COURSE THOSE THOSE
CHANGE OVER TIME I THINK COULD
BE ANYWHERE FROM 30 TO 60
POTENTIALLY EVEN SORT.
SO OBVIOUSLY THE CHANGES UP TO
A HUNDRED DOLLARS A MONTH FOR
INSTANCE.
>> AND THAT'S THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE'VE WE'VE YOU KNOW,
SHARED WITH THE GROUP BEFORE AS
WELL.
SO IT IS WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE THAT
THAT ARE, YOU KNOW, SOMEWHAT
OF A FIXED INCOME THAT THAT
CERTAINLY IS IMPORTANT TO US
AND THAT'S WHY WE PROVIDED THAT
INFORMATION.
AND AGAIN, WE'VE MET WITH THAT
IN DETAIL AS WELL AS COUNCILOR.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
I'VE KNOWN NO FOR 20 COUNCILOR
BREAKS.
YEAH.
THANKS.
>> I APPRECIATE THE FEEDBACK.
YOU KNOW, WE DID ASK SOME
QUESTIONS AROUND THE FINANCING
OF THIS.
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
END WITH THE WITH THE
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER I WOULD LIKE THIS TO
BE ALL ELECTRIC, WHICH I WOULD
THAT IS NOT SOMETHING THAT WE
HAVE THE POWER TO REQUIRE.
>> AND SO WE WORK WITH WITH
DEVELOPERS TO BRING FORWARD
PROJECTS IN THIS PROJECT HAS
COME A SIGNIFICANT WAY IF YOU
ARE INTERESTED MORE TO LEARN
ABOUT THIS, YOU CAN SEE ALL THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS THAT
ARE IN THE STAFF REPORT ONLINE
HOW HOWEVER WE JUST WE DON'T
THIS IS A REZONING AND NEITHER
THE ZONING CATEGORIES ACTUALLY
REQUIRE ALL ELECTRICS.
SO I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT WE'VE
MADE A SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS I
THINK AN IMPORTANT PROJECT FOR
FOR OUR CITY.
BUT WE DO HAVE TO USE THE TOOLS
WE HAVE AND FOR FOLKS WHO HAVE
SUGGESTED WE NEED TO
INCENTIVIZE THIS MORE, I FULLY
AGREE.
>> THAT'S WHY I'VE SUPPORTED
AND CO-SPONSORED SOME SOME
RESOLUTIONS TO THAT EFFECT.
BUT IT'S GOING TO TAKE US SOME
TIME TO GET THERE FOR THE
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR POSED IT'S
PROVED DB ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE VILLAGE
OF HARBOURSIDE PLANET ONE SEVEN
ONE ZERO DUVAN ROAD MOVE BY
COUNCILOR WATSON COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DEBE
ONE ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED C ONE AUDIENCE AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REZONING AT
FIFTY THREE PARCELS IN THE
PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA TO DC ONE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR DISTRICT TO
CITY INITIATED REZONING MOVE BY
COUNCILOR WATSON SINGLETON
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE COUNCILOR
WATSON I'LL BE DELIVERING SOME
COMMENTS FROM LISA.
THIS PLANNING COMMISSION IS ERM
BUT I WHOLEHEARTEDLY CONCUR SO
THIS ORDINANCE WOULD AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF THE UDC
TO REZONE FIFTY THREE PARCELS
IN THE PLYMOUTH AREA TO TAKE
ONE OR TRANSIT QUARTER.
THIS DISTRICT WAS ADDED TO THE
UDC IN JULY TWENTY TWENTY ONE
TO PROMOTE MIXED USE.
BOTH IS COMMERCIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ALONG
QUARTERS THAT ARE WELL SERVED
BY TRANSIT AND COULD
ACCOMMODATE MORE FREQUENT
TRANSIT SERVICE WITH POPULATION
DENSITY IS WARRANTED.
WHAT I DO ABOUT TRANSIT ZONING
IS THAT HOUSING CREATED ON THE
PREVIOUS HARBOR WILL COMMAND
LOWER RENTS THAN DOWNTOWN
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
DO YOU REMEMBER THAT
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TRANSIT CAN EACH SUPPORT THE
GROWTH OF THE OTHER HELPING TO
REDUCE VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
BY LETTING RESIDENTS LIVE
CLOSER TO WHERE THEY WORK ONE
WAY TO THINK ABOUT TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ZONING IS THAT IT IS
DESIGNED TO STIMULATE
DEVELOPERS TO REPURPOSE OUR
PARKING LOT FROM STORING CARS
TO HOUSING PEOPLE WHICH IS
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE DONE
WITHOUT DEMOLISHING WHAT'S
ALREADY THERE TO DATE TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY EIGHT PARCELS
COVERING ABOUT FOUR HUNDRED
ACRES HAVE BEEN REASON TO TAKE
ONE TO PROPOSE REZONING WOULD
ADD FIFTY THREE MORE UNIQUE
PARCELS AND ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVEN UNIQUE ADDRESSES FROM
FIFTY INDIVIDUAL LOTS AND THREE
CONDOMINIUM.
WHEN IT CAME TO PLANNING
PERMISSION IT CONTAINED FORTY
FIVE PARCELS OF LAND OVER ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY SEVEN ACRES IN
RESPONSE TO A REQUEST BY
PROPERTY OWNERS PLANNING
PERMISSION ADDED EIGHT
ADDITIONAL PARCELS LOCATED IN
PLYMOUTH EAST SUB AREA ADJACENT
TO THE AREA ORIGINALLY PROPOSED
REZONING FOR EXTEND THE
BOUNDARY NORTHWARD AND EXTEND
THE BOUNDARY SOUTHWARD THOUGH
THERE MAY BE AN AMENDMENT
COMING ON THAT DURING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONERS HEARD CONCERNS
REGARDING THE EFFECT OF TCE ONE
REZONING ON EXISTING BUSINESSES
.
THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF INDEPENDENTLY OWNED
BUSINESSES ALONG WITH
ESPECIALLY AT MIRFIN, NIXON AND
GREEN WHOSE OWNERS FEAR THAT
THEY WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
AFFORD THE RENT IF REZONING
SPURS REDEVELOPMENT.
>> THIS IS A LEGITIMATE CONCERN
BUT IT IS WORTH NOTING THAT
SOME OF THESE PROPERTIES WHERE
THESE INDEPENDENT BUSINESSES
ARE THRIVING ARE CURRENTLY
ZONED THREE WHICH ALREADY
ALLOWS MIXED USE BUILDINGS UP
TO HEIGHTS OF FIFTY FIVE FEET.
DEVELOPMENT ALONG THESE
CORRIDORS IS SLOW AND WILL MOST
LIKELY CONTINUE TO BE EVEN
AFTER REZONING.
TO LAST POINT OF NOTE THIS
REZONING WILL AFFECT A HANDFUL
OF PARCELS THAT CURRENTLY HAVE
DEED RESTRICTIONS ATTACHED TO
THEM AND ONE PUDI COUNCIL
SHOULD KNOW THAT ALL THE
PARCELS IN THE QUARTER ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR REZONING
REGARDLESS OF THE DEED
RESTRICTIONS OR THEY'RE BEING
ZONED D REGARDING THE FIRST
OF THESE STAFF EXPLAINED THAT
ZONING IS A REGULATORY POWER
OF THE CITY DEED RESTRICTIONS
OR PRIVATE AGREEMENTS
INDIVIDUALS MAY ENTER INTO BUT
THEY DO NOT TAKE PRECEDENCE
OVER CITY ZONING.
PUT SIMPLY, THE CITY IS NOT
OBLIGATED TO SEE THAT ZONING
AUTHORITY IN DEFERENCE TO
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN PRIVATE
INDIVIDUALS.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE THAT IT WILL
BE MORE DIFFICULT TO DEVELOP
THE DEED RESTRICTED PROPERTIES
WITHIN THE TERMS
ONE BUT THAT'S
NOT A PROBLEM THAT THE CITY
NEEDS TO ADDRESS REGARDING THE
SECOND ZONING DISTRICT AND IT'S
SOMETHING QUESTIONS REMAIN IN
EFFECT UNTIL COUNCIL CHANGES
THE PDS ZONING DISTRICT WE CAN
REZONE THE TOWNS NO.
>> YEAH FINISHED.
YOU CAN CYCLE BACK.
YEAH.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION COUNCIL MEMBER BASE.
I DIDN'T WANT TO FINISH THIS.
THAT'D BE HAPPY TO DEFER TO
THIS BUT I DID THERE IS ONE
AMENDMENT THAT WE NEED TO I
NEED TO INTRODUCE WE RECEIVED A
COMMUNICATION AROUND THIS
DURING THE PLANNING COMMISSION
DISCUSSION.
UNFORTUNATELY PLANNING
COMMISSION WANTED TO EXPAND THE
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES IMPACTED
BY THE ONE ZONING WHICH IS
GOOD.
UNFORTUNATELY THOSE PARCELS DID
NOT RECEIVE THE APPROPRIATE
NOTICING AND SO WE NEED TO
REMOVE THOSE FROM THE
CONSIDERATION TONIGHT.
SO I'D LIKE TO PUT FORWARD A
MOTION TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT
SHOULD I READ IT AND THEN READ
IT?
OK, SO I MOVE TO AMEND THE
ORDINANCE AND MAP TO REMOVE THE
EIGHT PARCELS THAT WERE NOT
INCLUDED IN THE ORIGINAL STAFF
RECOMMENDATION PLANNING
COMMISSION IN THE ORDINANCE
THOSE PARCELS ARE IDENTIFIED AS
PARCELS FORTY SIX THROUGH 53.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MCCONNELL IS THAT
FRIENDLY ONLY THE BODY FOR THE
DISCUSSION THE MAIN MOTION IS
AMENDED.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILOR WATSON
JUST PICKING UP ON THE ON THE
PD QUESTION SEEMED TELLS ME
THAT SHE WILL PUT THE QUESTION
OF WHETHER WE WANT TO KEEP
THOSE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
IN PLACE TO STAFF BEFORE SECOND
READING.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO SPEAK A
LITTLE BIT TO THE COFFEE OUT TO
THE FEEDBACK FROM THE
COMMUNITY.
I HAVE HEARD IT AT
COFFEE HOURS.
I'VE WE ALSO HAD AN
OCTOBER INFRA SESSION AT THE
TREVER LIBRARY.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S SOME
TREPIDATION IN THE COMMUNITY AS
THIS CHANGE GOES FORWARD BUT
THIS CATEGORY HAS BEEN VETTED
BY STAFF AND IS INTENDED TO
INCREASE HOUSING ACCESS AND
CHOICE AFFORDABILITY AND
OPTIONS ALONG TRANSIT CORRIDORS
AND I'VE SEEN QUITE PERSONALLY
THAT MIXED USE AND INFILL HAS
WORKED ALONG THIS CORRIDOR.
IN FACT THE COFFEE SHOP WHERE I
HOSTED MY COFFEE OURS IS A
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT WITH TWO
FLOORS OF RESIDENTIAL ON TOP
OF A NUMBER OF COMMERCIAL USES
.
>> THE OTHER MAIN INFILL THAT
WE'VE SEEN IN THIS CORRIDOR IS
IN FRONT OF WAY ONE MARKET
WHERE PARKING LOT HAS
SUCCESSFULLY BEEN TURNED INTO
TWO STOREY BUILDINGS WITH
BUSINESSES ON THE BOTTOM AND
TOP FLOORS.
TO ME TO SEE ONE ISN'T ISN'T
ABOUT ONE IS ABOUT INFLUENCING
WHAT COMES NEXT.
WE DON'T WANT STRIP MALL
DEVELOPMENT TO BE REPLACED WITH
MORE STRIP ALL DEVELOPMENT OUR
COMMUNITY CAN SUPPORT MORE
WALKABLE TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT AND PLYMOUTH THE
PLYMOUTH CORRIDOR IS A GREAT
EXAMPLE AND DC ONE WILL HELP
MOVE THIS CORRIDOR FORWARD.
>> COUNCIL EMBERSON SO I'M
REALLY GLAD COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON MENTIONS THAT THE
PLYMOUTH ROAD MALL AREA AS AN
INFILL PROJECT.
>> SO JUST TO BRING YOU BRING
YOU BACK IN TIME THAT WAS FIRST
PROPOSED IN 2006 BROKE GROUND
IN TWO THOUSAND TWELVE AND WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IS THAT THAT AREA
WHICH SUPPORTS A NUMBER
OF MINORITY OWNED BUSINESSES
INCLUDING FIRST GENERATION
MINORITY OWNED BUSINESSES IN
OUR WHO ACTUALLY GREW UP HERE
IN ARE DEDICATING THEIR TIME TO
HAVE THOSE BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN
SUCCESSFUL.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, WHEN THAT
PROJECT WAS FIRST PROPOSED
THERE WAS A LOT OF FEAR THAT IT
WOULD TAKE AWAY FROM, YOU KNOW,
THE LITTLE THAT LITTLE AREA
WHERE WE'RE STARBUCKS'S IN A
COUPLE THEIR BUSINESSES WOULD
TAKE AWAY FROM THE MALL THAT'S
BEEN THERE LONGER AND THAT
HASN'T BEEN THE CASE.
>> IF YOU SPEAK TO SONGBIRD
CAFE POOR CARPENTER BROTHERS,
YOU'LL HEAR THAT TRAFFIC THE
THE SUPPORT FOR THOSE
BUSINESSES HAS ACTUALLY
INCREASED BECAUSE IT'S
WALKABLE.
>> IT'S MORE WALKABLE TO GO TO
MORE BUSINESSES.
>> SO I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
THAT SUCCESS BE REPEATED ALONG
THAT CORRIDOR SO THAT FOLKS CAN
WALK BIKE AND FREQUENT LOCAL
BUSINESSES.
SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON FOR HAVING A DISCUSSION
WITH RESIDENTS AND POINTING TO
HOW THAT SUCCESSFUL LET'S TRY
TO SEE IF WE CAN MAKE IT THE
ENTIRE STRETCH FURTHER
DISCUSSION PART FOR MY PART I'M
VERY EXCITED ABOUT MOVING THIS
MOVING THIS ZONING DESIGNATION
FORWARD.
THE THE ONE DISTRICT IS
DESIGNED TO TO INCREASE DENSITY
AND WALKABILITY ON TRANSIT
CORRIDORS WHICH IS EXACTLY
WHERE WE'RE AT, WHERE IT OUGHT
TO BE AND WHERE IT OUGHT TO
THRIVE.
THE ONE DISTRICT PROVIDES FOR
INCREASED DENSITY ON TRANSIT
CORRIDORS ENABLING RESIDENTS IN
THOSE MORE BUILT OUT AREAS TO
GET IN AND OUT OF TOWN WITHOUT
A CAR ENABLES THEM THESE NEW
RESIDENTS TO LIVE IN CONNECTION
WITH PLACES TO WORK AND TO AND
TO ENJOY AND AND TO OF COURSE
THE OTHER THE MULTIPLE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR GREEN SPACE
THROUGHOUT THROUGHOUT THE
BALANCE OF THE CITY.
THIS IS AN EXCITING PROSPECT
FOR ANOTHER STRETCH OF OUR CITY
TO BE BENEFITED BY ONE AND I'M
EXCITED THAT IT'S MOVING
FORWARD FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL AND BRACKMAN I JUST
WANTED TO CHIME IN WITH THE
IDEA THAT THESE CORRIDORS ARE
KIND OF A LONG GAME.
IT'S ABOUT AS MUCH ABOUT
PREVENTING DEVELOPMENT THAT WE
DON'T WANT TO SEE AS IT IS
ABOUT ENABLING DEVELOPMENT.
WE DO WANT TO SEE AND I THINK
PERSONALLY IT'S A LITTLE BIT
HARD TO SEE THINGS PROGRESSIVE
SLOWLY BECAUSE YOU THINK YOU
MAKE THIS CHANGE AND
SOMETHING'S GOING TO HAPPEN
REALLY QUICKLY.
SO I DID WANT TO POINT OUT
THOUGH THE FIRST AREA THAT WAS
DESIGNATED AS A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR HAS ITS FIRST I
BELIEVE PUBLIC MEETING COMING
UP ON JANUARY 9TH AND THIS IS
FOR THE EISENHOWER STATE AND
JUST TO MAKE A PLUG FOR THAT
MEETING, YOU CAN FIND IT ONLINE
BUT IT'S THE CORNER
OF EISENHOWER AND STATE THE
MEETING IS TUESDAY, JANUARY 9TH
PUBLIC INPUT MEETING FROM SIX
TO SEVEN THIRTY AT THE SEVEN
SEVEN SEVEN BUILDING.
>> SO FOR THE COUNCIL BRISTOL
AND THEN I JUST FORGOT TO ADD
THAT WE ALSO HAVE THE
UNIVERSITY'S PLAN FOR THAT IF
WE LOOK AT CAMPUS 2050 AND THE
PROPOSALS FOR BUILDING THIS
ROAD CORRIDOR THERE'S THREE OUT
THREE PROPOSALS, THREE
POTENTIAL PROPOSALS.
I'M REALLY ADVOCATING FOR SEE
WHERE THERE'LL BE A CONFERENCE
HOTEL ACROSS FROM PLYMOUTH ROAD
MOLLE SO IF WE TALK ABOUT
DENSITY AND WE TALK ABOUT A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNIVERSITY
,I REALLY APPRECIATE HOW WE
HAVE THIS OPEN CONVERSATION,
ONGOING CONVERSATION AND WHAT
OUR CITY CAN LOOK LIKE ALONG
THESE VERY BUSY TRANSPORTATION
CORRIDORS THAT SUPPORTS
UNIVERSITY STAFF, MEDICAL
STAFF, FACULTY, STUDENTS AND A
CONFERENCE CENTER HOTEL CAN
BRING SOME ECONOMIC LIVELIHOOD
ALONG A CORRIDOR TO AND ALSO,
YOU KNOW, PROVIDE MORE YOU
BUSINESS SUPPORT FOR OUR SMALL
BUSINESSES THEN I'M ALL FOR IT.
>> SO IF WE'RE ALL WORKING HAND
IN HAND IT'LL BE GREAT.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
POR FAVOR OR OPPOSED WITH 19
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESIDENT OR
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THE
SATISFYING THE NO.
I'LL JUST NOTE 10 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTING IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE SEE TO AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTIONS
FIVE ONE FIVE FIVE ONE SIX AND
FIVE GOT THREE SEVEN OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TITLE FIVE THE COURTESY
OF THE CITY THEN AABA BANQUET
HALL PERSONAL SERVICES AND
VETERINARY USES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TWO
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S YES SO
COUNCIL MEMBER DESHU ELISENDA
PLANNING COMMISSION ALWAYS
PROVIDES VERY QUICK AND
THOROUGH UPDATES AROUND EVERY
PLANNING COMMISSION THINKS
SHE'S OUT OF THE COUNTRY RIGHT
NOW.
BUT REGARDLESS SHE HAS SENT
INFORMATION TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS WHAT THIS
CHANGES.
I WANT TO PROVIDE THAT
INFORMATION FOR THOSE IN THE
PUBLIC.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO KNOW THAT
THIS ALTHOUGH THIS IS A
TECHNICAL DENIAL THERE WERE TOO
FEW MEMBERS PRESENT DUE TO
RECUSALS OR ABSENCES BUT ALL
THE MEMBERS RECOMMENDED
APPROVAL SO AND SUPPORTED THE
CHANGES ESSENTIALLY THIS
ORDINANCE CHANGE WERE TRIGGERED
BY A PETITIONERS REQUEST TO ADD
EVENT SPACE AS A PERMITTED USE
THE OFFICE DISTRICT
CONSIDERATION OF THIS REQUEST
LED PLANNING STAFF TO A BROADER
DISCUSSION OF WEATHER EVENT
SPACE WAS THE BEST WORD FOR
WHAT THE PETITIONER WAS ASKING
FOR AND WHETHER IT WAS WIDELY
KNOWN THAT THE TEMPORARY
ASSEMBLIES OR GATHERINGS ARE
CURRENTLY ALLOWED IN MIXED USE
DISTRICTS WHEREVER THAT IS,
WHEREVER THERE IS A RESTAURANT
AND HOW BEST ZONING TO
FACILITATE ADAPTIVE USE
OF OFFICE BUILDINGS.
SO CONSEQUENTLY THERE ARE
SEVERAL CHANGES HERE.
THE MOST SIGNIFICANT OF WHICH
ADDS BANQUET HALL TO THE UDC
DEFINES IT PERMITS BANQUET
HALLS AND ALL MIXED USE
DISTRICTS WHETHER THERE IS A
RESTAURANT OR NOT AND PERMITS
BANQUET HALLS AND AND HOST
OF OTHER USES IN THE OFFICE
DISTRICT TO FACILITATE ADAPTIVE
USE OF OFFICE SPACE.
THE STAFF REPORT NOTES THAT THE
OFFICE HAS BEEN STEADILY
EVOLVING INTO A COMPLETE MIXED
USE DISTRICT.
THESE ZONING CHANGES WILL HELP
THE UDC KEEP UP WITH THAT
EVOLUTION.
STAFF ALSO PROPOSES ADDITIONAL
AMENDMENTS TO OFFICE DISTRICT
TO BETTER ALIGN ITS PERMIT IT
USES WITH THOSE OF MIXED USE
DISTRICTS GENERALLY THESE
INCLUDE ALLOWING ALL TYPES
OF PERSONAL SERVICES AND OFFICE
DISTRICT NOT ONLY BEAUTY SALONS
CONSISTENT WITH OTHER MIXED USE
DISTRICTS.
IT ALSO ALLOWS FRATERNITY
SORORITY STUDENT COOPERATIVE
HOUSING CLUB HEADQUARTERS,
COMMUNITY CENTER RELIGIOUS
ASSEMBLY PRIVATE K THROUGH 12
SCHOOLS, AN INDOOR RECREATION
AS A PRIMARY RATHER THAN
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE IN THE
OFFICE DISTRICT AND IS
SEPARATES VETERINARY OFFICES
FROM VETERINARY KENNELS AND
ANIMAL BOARDING SO AS TO ALLOW
VETERINARY OFFICES AS PRIMARY
USES IN THE MIXED USE DISTRICTS
KENNELS AND ANIMAL BOARDING
REMAIN AS CURRENTLY PERMITTED
WHICH IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE IN SOME DISTRICTS AND
PRIMARY USES AND OTHERS.
IT ALSO ALLOWS TRADE IN
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS AS PRIMARY
USES IN THE OFFICE DISTRICT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF PAUSED
IT IS APPROVED C3 AND BOARD
INSTRUMENT SECTION FIVE ONE SIX
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE STEPHEN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C THREE COUNCIL
BRACKMAN.
I AM THRILLED TO SEE THIS COME
TO US BECAUSE IT'S SOMETHING
I'VE BEEN ASKING ABOUT FOR A
WHILE AND IT'S AN AMENDMENT TO
THE UDC WHICH WAS DEVELOPED IN
RESPONSE TO COUNCIL'S DIRECTION
TO STAFF TO DEVELOP A SOLAR
ACCESS ORDINANCE.
THE VERY FANCY SOUNDING
PERSONNEL SKILL AS BASICALLY
MEANS SOLAR PANELS AND SO RIGHT
NOW RESIDENTS ARE NOT ALLOWED
TO HAVE SOLAR PANELS IN THEIR
FRONT YARD AND IN FACT AS I
THINK A PREVIOUS COLOR STATED
WERE MORE RESTRICTIVE ABOUT
SOLAR PANELS IN FRONT YARDS
THAN WE ARE ABOUT ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES IN GENERAL.
SO THE CHANGE IS BEING PUT
FORTH WITH THIS WILL ALLOW FOR
SOLAR PANELS IN FRONT YARDS UP
TO TEN FEET FROM THE FLAT LINE.
IT WILL ALSO ALLOW UNLIMITED
COVERAGE IN THE REAR SET BACK
AREA FOR SOLAR PANELS.
I THINK WE CAN ALL APPRECIATE
THE URGENCY AND THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS CHANGE,
ESPECIALLY IF WE THINK BACK TO
THE ENERGY OPTIONS REPORT THAT
WE RECEIVED A COUPLE OF MONTHS
AGO.
THIS REPORT IDENTIFIED A GAP
BETWEEN THE AMOUNT OF CLEAN
ENERGY THAT CAN BE GENERATED IN
ANN ARBOR AND THE AMOUNT
OF ENERGY THAT THE CITY AND ITS
RESIDENTS CONSUME.
AND I BELIEVE I JUST SAW A
NEWS REPORT TODAY SAYING THAT
WE HAVE A RECORD AMOUNT
OF SOLAR BEING USED IN THE
CITY.
SO CLEARLY THERE IS A DEMAND
FOR THIS.
THERE ARE PEOPLE FOR WHICH YOU
KNOW, I'M RUNNING OUT OF ROOF
SPACE PERSONALLY.
SO THIS OPENS UP MORE OPTIONS
FOR PEOPLE TO GENERATE POWER ON
THEIR OWN PROPERTY.
SO I'M VERY EXCITED TO SUPPORT
THIS AND MOVE IT FORWARD
TONIGHT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED OF ONE
RESOLUTION TO PROVE THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR.
>> NO, WE'VE ALREADY DONE LET'S
SEE TO SEE FOR DC.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO RECOMMEND
APPROVAL ISSUANCE OF A DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT LIQUOR LICENSE TO
THE MICHIGAN THEATER FOUNDATION
INC BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SAYING BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN
VERY EXCITED TO BRING THIS.
I MEAN IT'S PRETTY MINOR.
MICHIGAN THEATER IS A VERY
BELOVED ORGANIZATION THAT OUR
COMMUNITY I'M LUCKY ENOUGH TO
SERVE AS ONE OF THE COUNCIL
REASONS TO THAT BOARD.
THEY HAVE HAD A CLUB LIQUOR
LICENSE WHICH MEANS THAT PEOPLE
WHO ARE MICHIGAN THEATER
MEMBERS CAN PURCHASE ALCOHOL
BUT OTHERS CAN'T.
SO THIS IS CHANGING THE LIQUOR
LICENSE TO ONE IN WHICH ALL
GUESTS OF ALL EVENTS AND MOVIES
AT THE THEATER CAN BUY ALCOHOL
AS THEY PLEASE.
>> SO THAT'S IT.
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD FOR
THE DISCUSSION ALL FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED AS ONE
RESOLUTION TO PROVE ANDRE
ANDERSON AS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR POLICE CHIEF BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON.
THANK YOU MAYOR
.
I KNOW.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO I'D LIKE TO TAKE THIS MOMENT
TO EXTEND MY HEARTFELT THANKS
TO OUR DEDICATED CITY STAFF THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATOR HONY AND BAKER
TILLY WHO HAVE WORKED
TIRELESSLY IN THE SEARCH
PROCESS.
YOUR COMMITMENT AND DILIGENCE
HAVE BEEN INSTRUMENTAL IN
GUIDING US THROUGH THIS
IMPORTANT TRANSITION.
I ALSO WANT TO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION TO INTERIM CHIEF
PATRICK MCGUIRE AND OUR ENTIRE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THIS
PROCESS, YOUR PATIENCE AND YOUR
UNWAVERING COMMITMENT TO OUR
COMMUNITY DURING THESE TIMES
OF CHANGE HAVE BEEN ADMIRABLE.
>> THANK YOU TO OUR FORMER
INTERIM TO FORMER INTERIM CHIEF
AMY METZER FOR HER YEARS
OF SERVICE, HER WORK WITH PARK
AND FOR SUPPORTING THE DRIVING
EQUALITY ORDINANCE.
LASTLY TO THE CANDIDATES FOR
THE POLICE CHIEF POSITION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR WILLINGNESS
TO SERVE AND YOUR VISION FOR
THE FUTURE OF POLICING IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> LOOKING AHEAD, I AM EXCITED
AND OPTIMISTIC ABOUT WORKING
CLOSELY WITH OUR NEW POLICE
CHIEF TO FURTHER AND OUR VISION
OF RESIDENT LED COMMUNITY
POLICING AND JUSTICE CENTERED
POLICING ENSURING A SAFE,
INCLUSIVE AND EQUITABLE
COMMUNITY FOR ALL FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
I LIKE TO ECHOED THOSE
SENTIMENTS OF THANKS TO
EVERYONE ON STAFF WHO HAS
PARTICIPATED IN THE SEARCH GOES
FROM YOU KNOW THE MOST THE MOST
MOST MOST RECENT HIRE WHO
PROVIDED FEEDBACK TO ALL THE
WAY UP TO MR. DE HONI WHAT WE
KNOW IS THAT WE ARE JUST SO
FORTUNATE TO HAVE A STAFF AND
IN THIS CASE A POLICE
DEPARTMENT THAT IS FOCUSED ON
DOING THEIR JOB WITH
PROFESSIONALISM AND AND
DILIGENCE AND WHO ARE WORKING
CONSTANTLY TO PROVIDE
OUTSTANDING SERVICE TO ALL
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY AND
INDEED ALL PERSONS WHO ARE SO
FORTUNATE AS TO WANDER THEIR
WANDER THEIR WAY INTO INTO OUR
JURISDICTION.
I AM MYSELF I WOULD LIKE TO
ECHO HARRISON'S THANKS TO THE
THE MOST RECENTLY DEPARTED
LEADERS OF OUR INSTITUTION,
FORMER INTERIM CHIEF METZER AND
NOW PRESENTLY INTERIM CHIEF
MAGUIRE.
IT IS A DIFFICULT JOB SERVING
AS POLICE CHIEF AS IT IS BEING
A NEW RECRUIT AS WELL.
I DON'T WANT TO DIMINISH
ANYONE'S DIFFICULTY IN THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
IT IS A DIFFICULT AND TRYING
JOB BUT IT IS ONE THAT IS IS
NECESSARY AND ONE UPON WHICH
WHICH WE WE WE RELY WITH WITH
DEEP GRATITUDE WITH RESPECT TO
CHIEF ANDERSON, I AM INCREDIBLY
EXCITED ABOUT HIS JOINING US
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
I THINK THAT HIS HIS POISE AND
VISION AND HUMANITY WAS ON FULL
DISPLAY CERTAINLY HERE AT THE
COUNCIL CHAMBERS WHEN HE SPOKE
TO US AND HAS BEEN REPORTED UP
AND DOWN THE LINE WITH ALL
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AND STAFF
WITH WHOM HE HAS SPOKEN.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO HIS
JOINING US WHEN WHEN THE TIME
IS RIPE AND I AM CONFIDENT THAT
THE RELATIONSHIP WILL PROVE
FRUITFUL AND AND AND DEEPLY
POSITIVE FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FABER POSED IT IS TO PROVE MISS
CORE, DO WE HAVE A CLOSED
SESSION TODAY?
>> YES WE DO.
MAYOR, I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
A CLOSED SESSION UNDER MCO
FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
SECTION EIGHT H TO DISCUSS TO
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
MEMOS PROVIDED TO COUNSEL ONE
ON DECEMBER 14, 2003 AND THE
OTHER ON DECEMBER 15, 2003.
>> THANK YOU.
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION ON THAT BASIS
MOVE BY COUNSEL MEMBER SONGS
AND MY CUSTOMER ONE DISCUSSION
ROLL CALL PLEASE.
>> STARTING COUNTS MR. HARRISON
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON YES.
CUSTOMER SONG YES CUSTOMER
WATSON YES WAS VERY DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER 01 YES MARIANELA YES.
YES THAT'S RIGHT.
YES YES.
CUSTOMER CORNEAU YES.
CUSTOMER DISH ABSENT WASHING
CARRY WE'RE IN CLOSED SESSION
I
AM PLEASED TO GO BACK INTO OPEN
SESSION, MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED WE ARE BACK AND OPEN
SESSION.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS,
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS HAVE.
>> I AM PLEASED TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILOR
MCCONNELL SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRINGS DISCUSSION OF THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT COUNSELING
ROSOL SO ERM I WOULDN'T
ACTUALLY DISCUSS SOMETHING LIKE
THIS IF I CAN JUST RECOGNIZE
JESSICA LITOFF AND HER
RESIGNATION FROM THE DIVA.
>> SHE'S IT'S SO DIFFICULT TO
ASK FOR NORMAL FOLKS TO
VOLUNTEER IN OUR COMMISSIONS
AND THIS IS A LOT OF WORK IN
THE DVA SO I JUST WANTED TO
THANK HER FOR HER TIME SERVED.
>> I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING WHO
CAN FILL HER SPOT ON THAT ON
THAT BOARD FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FABER POST IT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU.
>> NOW RETURN TO PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
OF COURSE IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMITTEE
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC
COMMENT GENERAL TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING A CITY CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK DESIGNATED BY THE CLERK
IN FRONT OF YOU OR BY OUR CLERK
IF YOU ARE ONLINE IN ALL
INSTANCES PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO TIME AND WHEN YOUR
TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IN LINE TODAY
IS ZAYNAB WRITES
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
MY NAME IS DENHA RIGHTS AND I'M
A JOURNALIST.
I'M HERE TODAY TO BEAR WITNESS
TO MANY OF THE LIES AND
PROPAGANDA THAT HAVE BEEN
TAKING PLACE JUST THE LAST TIME
I COVERED THIS EVENT INCLUDING
TODAY WE HEARD SOME MORE
PROPAGANDA AND LIES AND I'M
HERE TO DEBUNK THEM.
>> I FIND THAT AS MY JOB AS A
JOURNALIST I HAVE TO SPEAK THE
TRUTH AND HOLD PEOPLE
ACCOUNTABLE EVEN IF IT'S PEOPLE
WHO ARE IN THE GOVERNMENT.
COUNCILWOMAN BRIGG'S BROUGHT UP
THE BEHEADED BABIES.
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE FOR THESE
BEHEADED BABIES UNLESS YOU
COUNT BEN SHAPIRO'S IMAGE.
>> WHAT THERE IS EVIDENCE FOR
IS MANY DECAPITATED PALESTINIAN
BABIES OVER EIGHTEEN THOUSAND
PEOPLE KILLED AND DEBBIE
DINGELL COUNCIL CONGRESSWOMAN
DEBBIE DINGELL ALSO BROUGHT
THIS UP ON A ON AN INTERVIEW
WHERE SHE SAID THAT THE CROWD
HERE WIDELY BOOED THAT
STATEMENT AND RIGHTFULLY SO
BECAUSE IT WAS A LIE.
WE KNOW THAT THAT PROPAGANDA
POINT WAS RECANTED BY THE WHITE
HOUSE.
IT WAS DEBUNKED BY ISRAELI
MEDIA AND IT WAS RECANTED BY
SARASATE, THE CNN JOURNALIST ON
HER TWITTER ACCOUNT WHERE SHE
APOLOGIZED PROFUSELY.
SO WHY ARE WE REPEATING THESE
LIES?
>> THIS IS A QUESTION WE NEED
TO ASK OURSELVES.
ANOTHER POINT THAT WAS BROUGHT
UP WAS A MASS RAPE ALSO BY
CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL AS
A TOOL OF WAR.
THIS IS A POINT THAT WAS
BROUGHT UP EARLIER TODAY AS
WELL.
AND THESE KIND OF LIES FEED THE
MISINFORMATION THAT LEADS TO
PEOPLE ACTING WRONGFULLY.
THE DETAILS OF OCTOBER 7TH ARE
UNCLEAR AS A JOURNALIST WHO'S
BEEN REPORTING ON THIS NOT JUST
FROM OCTOBER SEVEN BUT WIDELY
BEFORE THAT I'VE STUDIED IN
MUCH DETAIL REPORTED ON THIS.
IT'S VERY UNCLEAR WHAT HAPPENED
THAT DAY.
IN FACT, APACHE HELICOPTERS BY
THE ISRAELI REGIME WERE
UNLEASHED AND THEY HAVE
THEMSELVES COME FORWARD AND
SAID WELL OVER HALF OF THE
CIVILIANS THAT WERE KILLED THAT
DAY WERE BY ISRAELIS THEMSELVES
THE HEAD OF THE SEXUAL ASSAULTS
IN ALBERTA, SAMANTHA PEARSON
WAS RECENTLY FIRED FOR HER
STANCE AFTER SHE WROTE A LETTER
THAT THESE CLAIMS WERE
UNVERIFIED.
WHY WAS SHE FIRED?
DID ANYONE ASK THAT QUESTION?
THE DIRECTOR OF A SEXUAL HEALTH
CENTER WAS FIRED.
WE MUST ASK THESE QUESTIONS AS
PEOPLE OF TRUTH AND
CONSCIOUSNESS, I THINK
IS MY
TIME OVER.
>> IT IS, MA'AM.
THANK I GUESS THE ENDING WOULD
BE JUST IF WE CAN JUST LOOK
INTO OUR CONSCIOUSNESS AND BE
PEOPLE OF TRUTH AND NOT REPEAT
LIES.
THAT IS VERY IMPORTANT.
IT DOESN'T MATTER WHERE WE'RE
FROM, WHAT BACKGROUND WE HAVE.
I KNOW I'M OVER MY TIME BUT I
HAVE TO BEAR WITNESS.
THANK YOU.
WE CAN THANK YOU.
>> BUT NO MATTER WHAT
BACKGROUND WE HAVE, WHERE WE'RE
FROM, ALL OF US HERE WE NEED TO
BE A SOCIETY THAT INCLUDES IF
WE'RE NOT FIGHTING FOR TRUTH
WHO ARE WE IN A MOMENT
OF OVERFLOWS OF COURSE.
ALL RIGHT.
BUT YOU'VE EXTENDED THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JESSICA
ANDERSON.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JESSICA.
MY PARTNER AMIR IS HERE WITH ME
.
HE WAS BORN AND RAISED IN THE
PALESTINIAN CITY OF NAZARETH
AND AS HE WAS HERE SHORTLY
WE'VE HAD TO CANCEL OUR
CHRISTMAS CELEBRATION THIS YEAR
FOLLOWING THE CALL
OF PALESTINIAN CHURCH
LEADERSHIP WITHOUT A CEASE FIRE
IN PLACE.
THIS IS THE SEASON
OF UNRELENTING GRIEF FOR OUR
FAMILY.
>> THIS MORNING I RECEIVED AN
UPDATE FROM A DEAR FRIEND WHOSE
ENTIRE FAMILY IS IN GAZA WHILE
WATCHING AL JAZEERA HE SAID I
SAW MY NEIGHBOR CARRYING A
DEAD BODY.
I TRIED TO REACH HIM BY PHONE
BUT TO NO AVAIL.
MY NEIGHBORHOOD HAS BEEN
HEAVILY BOMBARDED ALL DAY.
HIS WIFE ALSO A FRIEND OF OURS,
HAS LOST 18 FAMILY MEMBERS
RECENTLY THE HEADS OF CARE USA
MERCY CORPS, THE NORWEGIAN
REFUGEE COUNCIL, SAVE THE
CHILDREN, US AND OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS WROTE THESE WORDS
IN THE NEW YORK TIMES WE ARE NO
STRANGERS TO HUMAN SUFFERING,
TO CONFLICT, TO NATURAL
DISASTERS, TO SOME OF THE
WORLD'S LARGEST AND GREATEST
CATASTROPHES.
THEY MENTIONED WORKING IN
SUDAN, UKRAINE, TURKEY, SYRIA
AND MORE BEFORE SAYING WE HAVE
SEEN NOTHING LIKE THE SIEGE
OF GAZA.
THEN THEY ISSUED A PRESCRIPTION
FOR AN IMMEDIATE AND COMPLETE
CEASEFIRE AND AN END TO THE
SIEGE.
SOME OF YOU SAID EARLIER YOU
WERE LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
WORDS.
>> THESE ARE THE RIGHT WORDS.
I KNOW THAT IT FEELS LIKE IT
TAKES TIME BUT OUR BROTHERS AND
SISTERS IN GAZA DO NOT HAVE
MORE TIME.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
HAS ISSUED A DIRE WARNING MORE
PEOPLE WILL DIE FROM DISEASE
THAN BOMBING IN GAZA WITHOUT AN
IMMEDIATE CEASEFIRE AND THE
RAPID RESTORATION OF THE HEALTH
SYSTEM.
SO I THINK THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
HERE AT ONE BRIGGS AND SONG FOR
WORKING ON A RESOLUTION AND I
ASK YOU TO COMMIT TO FINDING
THE WORDS AS URGENTLY AS YOU
WOULD IF IT WAS YOUR FAMILY
MEMBERS WHO WERE STARVING.
RIGHT NOW WE ARE A CITY KNOWN
FOR ITS HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
PEOPLE COME HERE TO SAVE LIVES
AND TO RECEIVE LIFE SAVING
CARE.
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR A CITY
LIKE ANN ARBOR TO IGNORE THE
SCENES FROM GAZA'S HOSPITALS
AND THE CRIES FROM GAZA'S
HEALTH WORKERS AND PATIENTS.
WE NEED LOCAL REPRESENTATION
OF THE DEMAND FOR CEASE FIRE,
ESPECIALLY IN LIGHT OF THE
SLOWNESS OF MANY OF OUR STATE
AND NATIONAL LEADERSHIP TO
REPRESENT THE OVERWHELMING WILL
OF THE PEOPLE CALLING FOR A
CEASE FIRE IS CONSISTENT WITH
OUR CITY'S VALUES.
IT OFFERS MUCH NEEDED HOPE AND
SUPPORT TO MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMUNITY LIKE MY FAMILY WHO
ARE BEING DIRECTLY IMPACTED FOR
SEVENTY TWO DAYS NONSTOP AND IT
IS A CRUCIAL FIRST STEP TOWARD
ADDRESSING MULTIPLE FORMS
OF RACISM AND HATE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YOUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GRETCHEN
CLECS
, GRETCHEN KEPEL ELEX OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS DEIDRE'S
.
>> I'M A POLITICAL SCIENTIST, A
WARD TO RESIDENT AND THE PARENT
OF AN ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOL
CHILD.
I'M PALESTINIAN AND I'M YOUR
NEIGHBOR.
I THINK COUNCIL MEMBERS HASI
EDWYN BREAKS IN SONG FOR THEIR
EFFORTS TO BRING FORWARD A
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION.
THE RESOLUTION HAD PROBLEMS BUT
THEY'RE FIXABLE.
I THINK A CEASE FIRE IS URGENT
SO I URGE YOU TO PERSIST EVEN
THE MOST INDIRECT UPWARD
PRESSURE THAT THIS BODY CAN
APPLY IS OF VALUE.
ANYONE WHO WANTS A JUST
SOLUTION FOR PALESTINIANS AND
ISRAELIS MUST ASK FOR A CEASE
FIRE SO THAT NEGOTIATIONS CAN
RESUME CALLING FOR A CEASE
FIRE.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT YOU DON'T
HAVE COMPASSION FOR AN
IDEOLOGICALLY DIVERSE JEWISH
RESIDENTS.
THEY AND EVERYONE SHOULD FEEL
SAFE HERE IN SCHOOLS AND PLACES
OF WORSHIP.
THE FAILURE TO SPEAK FOR A
CEASE FIRE CONTRIBUTES TO A
PUBLIC CLIMATE WHERE IT'S OPEN
SEASON ON PALESTINIANS AND
WE'RE FURTHER DEHUMANIZED THE
QUESTION IS NOT EMPATHY OR A
PERSONAL CONNECTION TO THIS.
IT'S LETTING YOUR VOTERS KNOW
WHERE YOU STAND ON A CEASE
FIRE.
>> WE NEED TO KNOW THE
ATROCITIES IN GAZA ARE WELL
DOCUMENTED, SYSTEMATIC AND
SEVERE BY EVERY METRIC OVER THE
LAST SEVEN DAYS TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND CHILDREN HAVE BEEN
ORPHANED TO PUT THIS INTO
PERSPECTIVE AND OUR PUBLIC
SCHOOLS HAVE JUST OVER
SEVENTEEN THOUSAND STUDENTS.
SO IMAGINE IF EVERY CHILD IN
OUR SCHOOLS HAD A PARENT KILLED
AND EVERY CHILD IN THESE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS AND IN DEXTEROUS PUBLIC
SCHOOLS AND THEN THEY'RE STILL
BEING BOMBARDED 50000 PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN INJURED.
THAT'S THE COMBINED NUMBER
OF RESIDENTS OF ANY TO ANN
ARBOR WARDS.
>> THIS ISN'T SOMETHING FAR
AWAY AS YOU KNOW.
IT IS HERE IN TWO MONTHS WE'VE
WITNESSED AN AVALANCHE OF CIVIL
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, FOR
INSTANCE, EACH WITH THE
EQUIVALENT OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE
SHRUG, RACIST SLURS AND THREATS
AGAINST ARAB STUDENTS, PHYSICAL
INTIMIDATION, INFRINGEMENTS ON
ACADEMIC FREEDOM,
DISINFORMATION ABOUT CALLS FOR
PALESTINIAN FREEDOM AND
ATTEMPTS TO EXCUSE ACTUAL
GENOCIDAL RHETORIC AND ACTIONS.
MEANWHILE, EVEN MINOR INCIDENTS
THAT DON'T INVOLVE PALESTINIANS
ARABS ARE BLACK AND BROWN
ALLIES AND ANTI ZIONIST JEWISH
BROTHERS AND SISTERS RECEIVE
IMMEDIATE AND CLEAR RESPONSES.
>> THAT'S WHY IT'S A CIVIL
RIGHTS QUESTION.
THE INCIDENTS WE HAVE ARE
ALMOST CERTAINLY UNDERREPORTED.
OUR COMMUNITIES HAVE LOST FAITH
IN THESE INSTITUTIONS AND THEY
WERE ALREADY LESS LIKELY TO
REPORT THIS IS BAD.
>> THIS IS WHY I'M ASKING YOU
TO CALL FOR A CEASE FIRE.
LOCAL ISSUES FROM CURRICULA TO
SCHOOL SAFETY NEED WORK ACROSS
GROUPS THAT CAN ONLY HAPPEN
AFTER A CEASE FIRE WHEN OUR
COMMUNITY CAN STOP WATCHING OUR
PEOPLE BEING CARPET CARPET
BOMBED.
I'M PUTTING A QUESTION BEFORE
ALL OF YOU AND IT'S NOT
RHETORICAL.
IS THERE ANYTHING THAT THE
ISRAELI FORCES COULD DO THAT
WOULD CAUSE YOU TO CALL FOR A
CEASE FIRE EITHER AS A CITY
COUNCIL OR PUBLICLY AS
INDIVIDUALS ARE ALSO ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES?
>> IF THE ANSWER IS NO, WE NEED
TO KNOW THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SPEAKER, PLEASE.
MY COMMENT
ON OK, THANK YOU.
>> COUNCIL MEMBERS FOR ALLOWING
ME THE OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS
YOU AS MY COLLEAGUES HERE
TONIGHT.
I WANT A FIRST DAY COUNCIL
MEMBERS GHAZI EDWYN BRAGGS AND
SONG FOR YOUR ALL ALL YOUR HARD
WORK IN SPONSORING THE ANTI
HATE AND TO CONFLICT IN AN
ISRAEL RESOLUTION THAT WAS
UNFORTUNATELY PRESENTED FROM
THE AGENDA TONIGHT I DO
APPRECIATE THE ONGOING
COMMUNICATION WITH ME THROUGH
THIS UNFORTUNATE SITUATION IN
GAZA.
AS YOU KNOW I CAME TO SPEAK TO
YOU EARLY ON IN OCTOBER AFTER
THE INITIAL EVENTS OF OCTOBER
7TH AND I SPOKE TO YOU AS A
PALESTINIAN MUSLIM AMERICAN AS
AN ELECTED OFFICIAL I SHARED
WITH YOU MY FEELINGS OF HURT,
OF PAIN, OF BEING ALONE AND AS
A PERSON AND AS A COLLEAGUE I
SHARED WITH YOU THE REALITY IS
OF WHAT IS HAPPENING NOW THAT
ARE IMPACTING MY COMMUNITY
WHICH INCLUDES MANY MUSLIMS AND
ARABS, ESPECIALLY PALESTINIANS
IN ANN ARBOR.
I SHARED WITH YOU THAT PEOPLE
FROM MY COMMUNITY ARE SCARED.
I SHARED WITH YOU THAT THERE
HAVE BEEN ONGOING SAFETY
CONCERNS FOR FEAR OF SPEAKING
GENERATIONAL TRAUMA AND MENTAL
HEALTH AND THE FEELING OF NOT
BEING SUPPORTED BY OUR ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND THAT INCLUDES
CITY COUNCIL.
UNFORTUNATELY, AS WEEKS, MONTHS
HAVE PASSED I HEAR SILENCE
UNTIL RECENTLY I HAD HOPE WE
ARE ALL ELECTED TO REPRESENT
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
ARABS, MUSLIMS, PALESTINIANS,
JEWS.
WE ARE ALL HURTING.
I HAVE HEARD FROM MANY COMMUTE
FROM MY COMMUNITY THAT THEIR
ELECTED OFFICIALS INCLUDING
CITY COUNCIL ARE DISCONNECTED
FROM THE MUSLIM AND ARAB
COMMUNITY HERE IT IS CRUCIAL TO
REACH OUT TO ALL YOUR
CONSTITUENTS AND HEAR THEIR
STRUGGLES, THEIR EXPERIENCES,
THEIR CONCERNS.
I AM ONLY ONE COMMUNITY MEMBER
HERE AND I DO APPRECIATE THE
RELATIONSHIPS I HAVE WITH EACH
ONE OF YOU BUT IT'S IMPORTANT
TO HEAR THE OTHER OTHERS IN THE
COMMUNITY.
I DO ALSO HEAR THAT THERE IS A
CONCERN THE RESOLUTION WILL
DIVIDE THE COMMUNITY WELL THE
COMMUNITY IS DIVIDED AND IT'S
STILL DIVIDED AND YES THERE IS
EXTREME BETWEEN YOU KNOW,
WITHIN THE COMMUNITY IS BUT IT
IS IMPORTANT THAT WE DO WE DO
SORRY.
I KNOW MY TIME IS ALMOST UP BUT
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT WE DO
TRY TO COME TOGETHER AND I DO
BELIEVE THAT A CEASE
FIRE
RESOLUTION WILL TRY TO UNITE
THE COMMUNITY TOGETHER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SPEAKER MEMBERS ALL THANK YOU
.
ETN FEEDS TO ONE
WE'RE WORKING
TO THE SCHOOL BOARD MEMBERS
AND
WE SHOULD WE SHOULD BE BACK ON
NOW.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
INFORMATION.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS NOT A
PUPPY.
THANK YOU.
DID YOU SEE HIS ANSWER?
THANK YOU
.
NOT UNTIL OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
YAMEN SUDI
YAMEN SAADET
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK TO YOU TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS DR. YAMAN SATO.
I WAS BORN AABA.
I GREW UP IN AUBURN HILLS OFF A
PONTIAC TRIL YEARS BEFORE AND
LIVE I WAS A PAPER BOY FOR THE
ANN ARBOR NEWS .
I WENT TO AN OPEN MIDDLE
SCHOOL.
I PLAYED VARSITY FOOTBALL OUT
HERE ON HIGH.
I WORKED MY WAY THROUGH COLLEGE
AS A WAITER A BIG BOY IN
PLYMOUTH ROAD AFTER A LONG
ROAD.
I'M VERY FORTUNATE TODAY TO
SERVE MY COMMUNITY AS A
NEUROSURGEON AT YOUR HOSPITAL
THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF HESITATION BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF MY HOMETOWN TO PASS
A RESOLUTION CONDEMNING THE
ATROCITIES CURRENTLY BEING
COMMITTED IN GAZA WHERE FOR THE
PAST SEVENTY TWO DAYS CONTINUED
TO TODAY A CHILD IS BEING
KILLED EVERY TEN MINUTES WHERE
ONE WHERE ONE MILLION CHILDREN
ARE BEING MALNOURISHED AND
SLOWLY STARVED TO DEATH WHERE
THERE IS DESCRIBING A GRAVEYARD
FOR CHILDREN.
ONE OF THE MANY REASONS OR ONE
OF THE REASONS BEING CITED FOR
WHY WE HAVE NOT PASSED A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION YET IS THAT
THIS IS NOT A LOCAL ISSUE AND
I'M HERE TODAY TO TELL YOU WHY
THIS IS A VERY LOCAL ISSUE.
MY FATHER MOVED THERE IN THE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES TO EARN HIS
PH.D. AFTER MY PARENTS DIVORCE
HE MOVED BACK TO GAZA IN THE
NINETEEN NINETIES AT A TIME
WHEN YOU CAN DRIVE FROM GAZA TO
JERUSALEM.
MY DAD LIVES IN GAZA NOW ALONG
WITH THREE OF MY SISTERS AND
THEY ALONG WITH TWO MILLION
OTHER CIVILIANS HAVE LOST THEIR
HOMES AND THERE ARE REFUGEES
TRAPPED UNDER A CRUEL
BOMBARDMENT AND STARVED
OF WATER AND BASIC NECESSITIES
.
WE FEAR FOR THEIR LIVES EVERY
MINUTE OF EVERY DAY AND WE FEEL
COMPLETELY POWERLESS TO HELP
THEM OR INCREASE THEIR CHANCES
OF SURVIVAL.
AND WE KNOW THAT OUR FELLOW
CITIZENS SILENCE IN THE FACE
OF THESE CRIMES IS JUST AS
DEADLY AS THE BOMBS BEING
DROPPED ON HOUSES ALL AROUND
THEM EVERY DAY AND OUR BODIES
CONSISTENTLY RANKED AMONG THE
TOP CITIES IN THE COUNTRY.
IT'S VIEWED AS A THOUGHT
LEADER, A PLACE OF PRINCIPLE, A
LEADER IN ETHICAL GOVERNMENT
AND A CONCERN FOR THE WORLD AT
LARGE.
>> CITY COUNCIL MUST EMBRACE
MORAL CLARITY AND SUPPORT AND
PASS A CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION
WHEN IT COMES BACK ON THE
AGENDA AND OUR SHOULD NOT
IGNORE WHAT IS HAPPENING TO ITS
OWN IN GAZA.
>> GAZA IS A LOCAL ISSUE.
THANK YOU.
CAN YOU EXCUSE PLEASE YOU SAY
FOOD IN
GOOD EVENING OR
MOHAMMAD SAY DIAMOND WORTH
THREE.
I HEARD SOMETHING AT THE
YPSILANTI MYKELTI I'M STILL ON
THE CASE MANAGER FOR CHILDREN
WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.
I'VE BEEN A NURSE FOR FORTY
SEVEN YEARS AND I JUST SIX
GRANDCHILDREN AND I'M JUST VERY
SOFT SO EXCUSE ME I HEARD SO
MANY CITY COUNCIL ONE OF THE
MEMBERS FROM ANN ARBOR SPOKE
THERE AND HE SAID THAT THE
FIRST TIME IN HIS LIFE HE'S
SEEN GENOCIDE'S LIVE STREAMED
AND THAT HAS JUST RESONATED
WITH ME.
I'M ALMOST SIXTY SEVEN YEARS
OLD, LIVED THROUGH CERTAIN
THINGS BUT THIS IS REALLY
SOMETHING VERY INCREDIBLE THEN
THE REALITY OF THIS HOLOCAUST
WAS BY DEFINITION THIS IS A
HOLOCAUST.
IT'S NOT THE HOLOCAUST BUT IS A
IT'S BEING WITNESSED DAILY
HOLOCAUST.
AROUND THE WORLD.
IT'S BEING WITNESSED DAILY
I MEAN MY LINKEDIN I JUST WAS
AROUND THE WORLD.
LOOKING AT IT AND I JUST SAW AN
I MEAN MY LINKEDIN I JUST WAS
AD FOR AN ADVERTISING IN HEBREW
LOOKING AT IT AND I JUST SAW AN
FOR A DEVELOPMENTS IN GAZA BY
AD FOR AN ADVERTISING IN HEBREW
THE
IT DOESN'T STOP IT'S 24
HOURS.
WE CAN'T SAY THAT PALESTINIANS
,WHETHER CHRISTIANS OR JEWS,
THEY HAVEN'T DIED.
THEY'VE BEEN KILLED, THEY'VE
BEEN MURDERED.
>> SO I THINK IT'S A DISSERVICE
TO SAY BECAUSE WHEN PEOPLE DIE
IT'S OFTEN FROM FROM DISEASE OR
NATURAL DISASTERS.
WE THINK OF THAT AS DEATH.
BUT THIS IS MURDER.
THIS IS JUST JUST BRUTALITY
THIS AND THIS IS A THIS THIS
COLLECTIVE PUNISHMENT ON THE
SCALE OF MAGNITUDE WITH A FULL
SCALE WITH THE FULL SUPPORT
OF OUR GOVERNMENT, OUR WAR
CRIMES.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING I FEEL IS
REALLY UP FOR DEBATE.
>> IF YOU NEED SOME INSIGHT
INTO THIS DEPRAVITY AND I'M NOT
I WE HAVE JEWISH NEIGHBORS HERE
AND I'M NOT I KNOW THEY'RE
SUFFERING SO I'M TALKING ABOUT
THE PEOPLE CARRYING OUT THIS
THESE THINGS NOT PEOPLE LIVING
THROUGH IT ON EITHER SIDE.
>> THE RECENT STATEMENT I READ
THIS TODAY BY THE MAYOR
OF JERUSALEM SUMMED IT UP.
HE SAID HE SAID THAT HAMAS ARE
NOT HUMAN BEINGS.
THEY'RE THEY'RE NOT HUMAN
ANIMALS.
THEY'RE NOT SUBHUMAN.
THAT'S HOW THEY'RE NOT SUBHUMAN
.
THAT'S HOW THEY SHOULD BE
TREATED.
SO THEY'RE LIKE DIRT.
I DON'T KNOW HAMAS I'M NOT
SPEAKING FOR THEM.
BUT IF YOU IF YOU SPREAD THAT
OUT TO THE ENTIRE POPULATION
THAT WHAT CAN YOU DO?
IT'S I'M FROM NEW YORK CITY.
YOU A COCKROACH YOU STEP ON IT.
HOUSES ARE FULL OF COCKROACHES.
YOU DON'T THINK ABOUT STEPPING
WHEN YOU TAKE MAKE SOMETHING
INTO A COCKROACH.
>> WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?
YOU'RE GOING TO KILL IT
SHOOTING SHOOTING YOUR OWN
PEOPLE, WAVING A WHITE FLAG IS
SUBHUMAN LIVING NEWBORNS TO DIE
AND IN BASSINETS TO FIND A BEAT
BY DOGS AND BUGS IS SUBHUMAN.
I WORK WITH CHILDREN WHEN LIKE
WHEN MY CLIENTS DIE WHENEVER WE
JOB FOR THEM OF DROPPING TWO
THOUSAND POUND NOW QUAINTLY
CALL DUMB BOMBS DIRECTLY ON
HOMES IS SUBHUMAN.
OUR MILITARY DIDN'T DO THIS SO
I'LL JUST HAVE TO GET THROUGH
THIS.
I'M SORRY BUT YOU KNOW ANN
ARBOR AND I JUST WANT TO SAY
THIS ONE THING I'VE SAID I
FREQUENTLY SAY IN ADVERSITY
THERE'S WINNERS AND TODAY IN
REUTERS THE TITLE WAS HORSE
RACE PROFIT OUTLOOK FOR THE US
DEFENSE INDUSTRY IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR.
THIS IS ALSO HELPED OUR FEDERAL
OUR FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
SO PLEASE THANK YOU.
>> JUST LOOK IN YOUR HEARTS AND
DO THE RIGHT THING.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAVID LOUR
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID LOUR.
I SPOKE TO A NUMBER
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS NEAR AND
FAR TO COMPILE THIS
COLLABORATIVE STATEMENT.
I SAT HERE FOR SOME TIME AFTER
THE LAST COUNCIL MEETING.
WHAT CAME TO MIND IS THE
IMPERATIVE FOR ACTIONABLE ITEMS
TO BE INTRODUCED TO THE ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC AND WHAT SOME
OF THOSE ITEMS OR SERVICES
MIGHT LOOK LIKE.
WE CAN ALL SIT HERE AD NAUSEUM
CALLING FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IS
BEST FOR OUR PEOPLE OR WE CAN
TRY TO BRIDGE THE GAP BETWEEN
THE AND I HATE TO SAY THIS OUR
SITES WE'RE ALL CITIZENS OF THE
WORLD AND WE ALL FUNDAMENTALLY
DESERVE THE SAME BASIC HUMAN
RIGHTS IN DENMARK, PUBLIC
LIBRARIES OFFER THE OPTION TO
BORROW A PERSON INSTEAD OF A
BOOK AND TO LISTEN TO THEIR
LIFE STORIES IN HOPE
OF COMBATING PREJUDICE.
EACH PERSON HAS A TITLE SUCH AS
UNEMPLOYED REFUGEE BI POLAR
HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR HOMELESS.
YOU GET THE IDEA BY LISTENING
TO THEIR STORIES YOU REALIZE
HOW MUCH WE SHOULDN'T JUDGE A
BOOK BY THEIR COVER .
IT'S INNOVATIVE PROJECT IS
ACTIVE IN EIGHTY FIVE PLUS
COUNTRIES.
IT'S CALLED THE HUMAN LIBRARY
IN SUCH A PLACE AS ANN ARBOR A
MICROCOSM OF INTELLECTUALS IN A
MELTING POT OF PEOPLE FROM ALL
AROUND THE WORLD.
WHAT BETTER PLACE TO START
OF INITIATIVE THAT PROMOTES
DISCOURSE AND CREATES A SAFE
SPACE FOR PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT
WALKS OF LIFE TO COME TOGETHER
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY LISTEN TO
ONE ANOTHER WHEN A NEIGHBOR
STARTS AN INITIATIVE THE REST
OF THE WORLD WATCHES TO SEE HOW
SUCCESSFUL WE ARE AND THEN
FOLLOW SUIT.
OK, WE SET THE TONE FOR SO MANY
SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND
PHYSICAL POLICIES TO PROMOTE
POSITIVE CHANGE DURING TRYING
TIMES WE ARE ALL FEELING AN
IMMENSE AMOUNT OF PAIN AND
MAKING EMOTIONALLY CHARGED
STATEMENTS OF HOW WE FEEL AND
WHAT OUR MORALS AND BELIEFS
ARE.
>> BE CAREFUL THAT THE WORDS
YOU SHARE AND UNDERSTAND
YOURSELF MIGHT BE MISCONSTRUED
AS AN ATTACK OF SPREADING
HATRED OR OR ANGER OR ANYTHING.
FILL IN THE GAP THERE TOWARDS
ANOTHER RELIGION GROUP
OF PEOPLE OR GEOGRAPHIC
LOCATION.
WE'RE ALL GRIEVING WHETHER YOU
LIVE IN ISRAEL, PALESTINE,
EGYPT, LEBANON, NORTH AMERICA
OR THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE
STATION.
>> OK, EVERYONE'S FEELINGS ARE
VALID AND WE SHOULD ALL ALLOW
EVERYONE TO GRIEVE PROPERLY.
BOTH SIDES HAVE SHARED
MISINFORMATION AND IT'S PETTY
TO ARGUE WHETHER BABIES HEADS
WERE CUT OFF OR THEY'RE LIT ON
FIRE.
IT'S ALSO PETTY TO ARGUE THAT
PALESTINIAN LIVES ARE LESS
VALUE
SIMPLY BECAUSE A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION LIVES
WITHIN CLOSE QUARTERS.
HATRED HAS NO PLACE IN OUR
WORLD.
HATRED IS A MANY HEADED BEAST A
HYDRA FOR LACK OF A BETTER
TERM.
IT'S PRESENT ON BOTH SIDES
OF THIS GEOPOLITICAL ARENA.
IT DO NOT CONTINUE TO FEED THIS
FEAR MONGERING HYDRA WITH
HATRED FOR ONE ANOTHER THAT
ONLY DIVIDES US INSTEAD TAKES
THE WEIGHT OF ALL OUR VOICES
THROUGH ACTIONS AND WORDS TO
COLLECTIVELY STOP IT.
HATRED OUT OF EXISTENCE.
I CHALLENGE US ALL TO LISTEN A
LITTLE MORE TO ONE ANOTHER.
DO NOT ACT FROM IMPULSE OR
EMOTIONALLY TRIGGERED STATE BUT
THEY EMPATHIZE, SYMPATHIZE AND
REALIZE WE CAN ALL PULL THROUGH
THIS TOGETHER.
>> I PRAY FOR PEACE AND I PRAY
FOR AN EQUITABLE RESOLUTION.
I THINK THIS COUNCIL FOR THEIR
TIME EMPATHY AND DEALING WITH
THE CITY, A STATE AND A WORLD
THAT EVERY DAY FACES HATRED AND
PREJUDICE TOWARDS ALL WALKS
OF PEOPLE.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ARE THERE
SIGNS IN THAT'S NOT A RULE
SORRY MAYOR TAYLOR, CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS MY NAME IS
UNKNOWN AT THE WALKWAY I MOVED
TO THE UNITED STATES EIGHT
YEARS AGO AND SETTLED IN ANN
ARBOR THREE YEARS AGO.
>> BEFORE THAT I WAS BORN AND
RAISED IN THE PALESTINIAN CITY
OF NAZARETH.
AS A PALESTINIAN CHRISTIAN I'M
HEEDING THE CALL OF OUR LOCAL
CHURCH LEADERSHIP TO CANCEL
CHRISTMAS CELEBRATIONS THIS
YEAR WE WILL NOT EXCHANGE GIFTS
WHILE THE US GOVERNMENT IS
GIFTING ISRAEL WITH UNQUALIFIED
MILITARY AND DIPLOMATIC SUPPORT
.
>> WE WILL NOT ENJOY A FEAST
WHILE HALF OF THE POPULATION
OF GAZA ARE STARVING, WE WILL
NOT REJOICE IN A CHILD'S BIRTH
IN BETHLEHEM WHEN OVER EIGHT
THOUSAND CHILDREN IN PALESTINE
HAVE BEEN KILLED JUST A FEW
MILES AWAY WE WILL NOT WISH
EACH OTHER MERRY OR HAPPY
ANYTHING ON THE DAY THAT WOULD
MARK THE SEVENTY NINTH DAY
OF MASS INDISCRIMINATE KILLING
OF OUR PEOPLE.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IN MY
LIFETIME THAT CHRISTMAS WILL
NOT BE CELEBRATED IN MY IN
JESUS'S HOMETOWN OR IN
BETHLEHEM OR IN JERUSALEM WHERE
THE OLDEST CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY
IN THE WORLD AND WE WERE AMONG
THOSE THAT ISRAEL THAT THE
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU HAD RECENTLY CALLED
CHILDREN OF DARKNESS BACK HOME
WERE NOT ALLOWED TO PROTEST
WERE NOT ALLOWED TO RAISE
PALESTINIAN FLAGS, WERE NOT
ALLOWED TO EXPRESS OUR IDENTITY
WITHOUT FACING ARREST, DOXXING
AND THREATS OF VIOLENCE AND
RETRIBUTION.
>> THE ISRAELI POLICE CHIEF
TOLD OUR COMMUNITY YOU WANT TO
SUPPORT GAZA, I'LL PUT YOU ON A
BUS.
>> SILENCING AND REPRESSION IS
TAKING A HEAVY TOLL ON OUR
COMMUNITY IN ANN ARBOR HERE TO
JUST TALK TO STUDENTS AND OUR
UNIVERSITY HEALTH CARE WORKERS
AND OUR MEDICAL SYSTEM
PROFESSIONALS IN ANY FIELD WHO
ARE TRYING TO SPEAK THEIR
CONSCIENCE BUT ARE BEING MET
WITH CONTEMPT AND THREATS TO
THEIR LIVELIHOODS.
>> THIS IS WHY IT IS VITAL FOR
THE CITY COUNCIL TO OFFICIALLY
ENDORSE A CEASE FIRE AS OTHER
CITY COUNCILS IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN HAVE DONE AFFIRMS
OUR RIGHT TO DISSENT AND
REPRESENTS OUR OVERWHELMING
DEMOCRATIC VOICE AT A TIME WHEN
THE STATE WHEN STATE AND
NATIONAL LEADERSHIP FAIL TO DO
SO, WE HAVE RUN OUT OF WORDS TO
CONVEY THE URGENCY OF THE CALL
FOR CEASE FIRE.
IT SHOULD NOT BE CONTROVERSIAL
TO STOP OUR INDISCRIMINATE
MURDER.
ONE WOULD THINK ONE DO NOT
THINK IT TAKES POLITICAL
COURAGE TO SPEAK OUT AGAINST
WHAT EXPERTS ARE CALLING A
TEXTBOOK CASE OF GENOCIDE.
BUT APPARENTLY IT DOES SO I
WOULD LIKE TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBERS EDWIN SONG AND BRIGS
FOR YOUR LEADERSHIP IN TRYING
TO INTRODUCE A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
I ASK YOU TO KEEP TRYING AND TO
THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE STILL
DISCERNING, I HOPE YOU RESOLVE
TO RECOGNIZE THE URGENCY OF THE
MOMENT AND THE NEED FOR
IMMEDIATE ACTION.
MY NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION IS NOT
TO LET OUR VOICE GO UNHEARD
EVER AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KAURA
DELTRON AND THIS CALLERS ON
ZOOME THANK CALLED THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO EIGHT
NINE PRESS STAR SIX ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD CRY MARINE
CORPS GALCHEN I AM IN ANN ARBOR
ROBINETT I'M CALLING TODAY TO
SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF THE
COMMUNITY LED RESOLUTION FOR A
CEASE FIRE THIS RESOLUTION
WHILE I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
COUNCIL MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO
ADOPT IT IN ITS ENTIRETY, I
THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT YOU GUYS TALK TO PEOPLE
WHO DRAFTED IT BECAUSE REALLY,
REALLY GOOD THE RESOLUTION
ACCURATELY CALLED FOR A CEASE
FIRE AS WELL AS THE RELEASE FOR
ALL HOSTAGES INCLUDING
PALESTINIAN PRISONERS WHO HAVE
BEEN UNFAIRLY DETAINED.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
OPPOSITION TO THIS RESOLUTION
BY ZIONIST AS IT IS LITERALLY
CALLING FOR WHAT THEY'RE ASKING
FOR, WHICH IS THE RELEASE
OF ALL HOSTAGES, THE MOVEMENT
THAT HAS BEEN BUILT
SPECIFICALLY IN ANN ARBOR FOR
PALESTINE IS INTERSECTIONAL
CROSS GENERATIONAL AND VALUES
EVERYONE VALUES FIGHTING
ISLAMOPHOBIA, ANTI-SEMITISM,
RACISM AND ALL FORMS
OF OPPRESSION, ANTI-SEMITISM
INCREASED WHEN JEWS ARE EQUATED
WITH THE STATE OF ISRAEL, WHEN
JEWS ARE TREATED WITH CARPET
BOMBING, MURDERING CHILDREN,
INDISCRIMINATE HOME DEMOLITIONS
AND SETTLERS KILLING INNOCENT
PEOPLE IN THE WEST BANK THAT IS
NOT JUDAISM.
>> ZIONISM TRIED TO DRAW THAT
CONNECTION AND THERE IS A LARGE
GROWING CONTINGENCY OF AMERICAN
JEWS WHO ARE SAYING NO, THAT IS
NOT JUDAISM, THIS IS NOT
JUSTICE AND THIS IS NOT WE WILL
STAND FOR YOU.
POWER IS THE BARE MINIMUM TO
RESTORE DIGNITY TO PALESTINIANS
AND DIGNITY TO JEWS AS WELL.
>> WHAT IS BEING DONE IN OUR
NAME RIGHT NOW IS ABSOLUTELY A
GENOCIDE FOR WAR CRIMES AND IF
UNACCEPTABLE A CEASEFIRE MUST
HAPPEN, THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN
HAVE BEEN KILLED.
THERE IS NO JUSTICE AND
INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING.
THERE IS NO JUSTICE IN
MURDERING THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN
CHILDREN.
>> THIS DOES NOT MAKE YOU SAFER
AND IT IS A PRIVILEGE TO CENTER
FEELINGS OF FEAR AND JEWISH
INSECURITY OVER THE MATERIAL
DANGER THAT PALESTINIANS ARE IN
EVERY DAY.
HERE'S A COORDINATED
GASLIGHTING CAMPAIGN BEING
EXECUTED BY ZIONISTS AND
POLITICIANS ACROSS THE WHATEVER
OF OUR HUMANITY WE WILL NOT
ALLOW IT.
>> THE COMMUNITY RESOLUTION FOR
A CEASEFIRE IS INTERSECTIONAL.
>> IT ACKNOWLEDGES THE RELEASE
OF ALL HOSTAGES AND IT WORKS TO
FIGHT ANTI-SEMITISM AND
ISLAMOPHOBIA AND I WOULD REALLY
ENCOURAGE THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
TO SUPPORT IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAVID
DIRK DAVID
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRI
MOSCOVITZ
.
GOOD EVENING.
>> 20 YEARS AGO MY FRIEND PAUL
ISEN MADE THE FOLLOWING
OBSERVATION.
IT IS TRUE TODAY AS IT WAS THEN
THE CRIME AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE WAS BEING
COMMITTED BY A JEWISH STATE
WITH JEWISH SOLDIERS USING
WEAPONS DISPLAYING JEWISH
RELIGIOUS SYMBOLS AND WITH THE
FULL SUPPORT AND COMPLICITY
OF OVERFLOWN MASS OF ORGANIZED
JEWS WORLDWIDE.
BUT TO NAME JEWS AS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THIS CRIME SEEMS IMPOSSIBLE
TO DO.
>> ISRAEL ITSELF CLAIMS IN ITS
TWENTY EIGHTEEN NATION STATE
LAW THE LAND OF ISRAEL IS THE
HISTORIC HOMELAND OF THE JEWISH
PEOPLE IN WHICH THE STATE
OF ISRAEL WAS ESTABLISHED.
THE RACISM IN THIS STATEMENT IS
MADE CLEAR BY THE CHANGING OF A
FEW WORDS AMERICA IS THE
HISTORIC HOMELAND OF THE WHITE
PEOPLE IN WHICH THE UNITED
STATES WAS ESTABLISHED.
>> WHO HERE WOULD BE HAPPY WITH
THAT DEFINITION OF OUR COUNTRY?
>> I WOULDN'T IMAGINE ANY OTHER
ETHNIC GROUP COMMITTING THIS
ONGOING GENOCIDE AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
>> IMAGINE IF AMERICAN BLACKS
UNHAPPY WITH JIM CROW NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT DECIDED TO
ETHNICALLY CLEANSE PALIS TRYING
TO CREATE A BLACK NATION.
THE WORLD WOULDN'T TOLERATE IT
FOR A MINUTE.
THE WORLD DOES NOT TOLERATE
THIS ONGOING GENOCIDE BECAUSE
BEING COMMITTED BY JEWS AND THE
WORLD BELIEVING THE HOLOCAUST
NARRATIVE AS PRESENTED BY
HOLLYWOOD TURNS ITS EYES AWAY
FROM THE PALESTINIAN VICTIMS
AND THEIR STRUGGLE FOR
LIBERATION BECAUSE THEIR
PERPETRATORS ARE JEWS AND JEWS
ARE THE ULTIMATE VICTIMS.
BUT ARE THEY HOLOCAUST
REVISIONISTS BELIEVE A FULL
VETTING OF THE EVENTS OF WORLD
WAR TWO WILL STRIP JEWS OF THIS
ULTIMATE VICTIM STATUS THE
TRUTH MUST BE KNOWN BECAUSE
PALESTINIANS TODAY ARE PAYING
THE PENALTY FOR THE WORLD'S
IGNORANCE.
THANK YOU HOLOCAUST.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DUNIYA.
OH YOUR MOM OH OH
AMOL HI MY
NAME IS DANIEL JAMAAL.
I WILL BE DOING SPOKEN WORD
TONIGHT TO CHANGE THINGS UP FOR
YOU.
WHY WHY DO I HAVE TO STAND
BEFORE YOU TO CONVINCE YOU FOR
A CEASE FIRE?
IS IT NOT A SIMPLE THING TO DO?
WHY IS CEASING TO KILL INNOCENT
LIFE SOMETHING WE NEED TO HOLD
A MEETING FOR TO PROTEST FOR TO
BEG FOR HAS HUMANITY LOST ITS
EMPATHY THAT A FEELING ONE'S
SUFFERING WITHOUT GOING THROUGH
IT YOURSELF?
>> THE WHEN WE FEEL AS WE WATCH
YOUR FATHER TELLING HIS TELLING
US ABOUT HIS BELOVED MOTHER
DAUGHTER MEANS LOOK AT HER,
SHE'S BEAUTIFUL.
>> SHE'S THE QUEEN.
SHE USED TO MAKE ME TEA BEFORE
HER MOTHER WOULD.
HE IS A FATHER, A HARDWORKING
FATHER WHO LOVES HIS CHILDREN
WHOLEHEARTEDLY AS ANY FATHER
WOULD OR THE MOTHER WHO NO
LONGER HAS A HOME TO TAKE HER
CHILD IN THEIR WARM COZY BUT
INSTEAD WRAPS THEM IN A WHITE
SHROUD HOLDING THEM FOR ONE
LAST TIME.
SHE'S GRIEVING THINKING HOW
SHE'S GOING TO MISS THOSE WARM
DEEP HUGS THAT MELT HER HEART
AWAY.
>> THEY MAKE SLEEPLESS NIGHTS
WHERE THE ENTIRELY STAYS
DESERVING A LOVING MOTHER JUST
LIKE YOU AND ME.
>> THEY FEEL IMMENSE LOVE THEY
LOVE JUST AS MUCH AS LOVE
EXISTS AND FEEL IMMENSE PAIN
JUST LIKE HUMAN AND HUMAN
BEING.
>> WHAT ON THIS EARTH REMIND ME
ONCE AGAIN MULTIPLYING THESE
STORIES TWENTY THOUSAND TIMES
FOLD.
>> WHY AM I HERE TO TO CONVINCE
YOU OF A CEASE FIRE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TINY
KRETZMANN HODDY OFMAN
THANK YOU
.
OH
IF THE CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN TWO ZERO ONE
IS ON THE LINE, PLEASE RAISE
YOUR HAND
.
WELL OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS AARON
ARREAZA
.
>> FIRST OF ALL IT'S MOROSI
AARON MIRAZI LIKE TASNIM SAID
EARLIER TODAY I WANTED TO COME
UP HERE AND THANK YOU GUYS FOR
SUPPORTING AT LEAST SOMEWHAT
OF A CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION BUT
OUT OF THAT RESOLUTION HAS BEEN
PULLED.
I DON'T FEEL LIKE THAT WOULD BE
PARTICULARLY HELPFUL.
I DON'T THINK IT WOULD BE
PARTICULARLY HELPFUL TO TALK
ABOUT THE SPECIFIC ISSUES THAT
I HAVE WITH THAT CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
>> SO I'LL TALK ABOUT SOME
OF THE SPECIFICS SO I'LL TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE THINGS THAT I
DON'T SUPPORT AND THAT I'M NOT
GOING TO DO OK?
>> I DON'T SUPPORT ANY CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION THAT DOESN'T
CALL FOR AN END TO THE SEVENTY
FIVE YEAR ISRAELI OCCUPATION
OF PALESTINE.
>> I DON'T SUPPORT ANY CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION THAT DOESN'T
EXPLICITLY AND FORCEFULLY
CONDEMN THE SEVENTY FIVE YEAR
GENOCIDE OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
BEING COMMITTED BY THE ISRAELI
REGIME AND I SURE AS DON'T
SUPPORT ANY CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION THAT DOESN'T DEMAND
THAT OUR TAX DOLLARS STOP BEING
SPENT BUILDING THE BOMBS AND
THE BULLETS THAT ARE KILLING
PEOPLE IN PALESTINE AND ALL
OVER THE WORLD.
I WON'T SIT HERE AND SQUABBLE
ABOUT WHAT IS AND ISN'T
LEGITIMATE RESISTANCE WITH
PEOPLE WHO ARE WILLING TO TURN
A BLIND EYE TO SEVENTY FIVE
YEARS OF ISRAELI ATROCITIES AND
I WON'T SIT HERE AND STOOP TO
THE MORAL LOWS THAT ARE
REQUIRED IN ORDER TO SUPPORT A
GOVERNMENT THAT'S WILLING TO
SPEND OUR TAX DOLLARS
COMMITTING A GENOCIDE INSTEAD
OF SUPPORTING ITS OWN PEOPLE.
I'VE HEARD MORE AND MORE PEOPLE
TALK ABOUT HOW THIS IS SOMEHOW
NOT A LOCAL ISSUE.
BUT FOLKS, I WORK AT A FOOD
BANK IN ANN ARBOR AND I KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE WHEN
OUR GOVERNMENTS INCLUDING THIS
ONE SUPPORT THE USE OF OUR TAX
DOLLARS FOR GENOCIDE INSTEAD
OF CARING FOR THEIR OWN PEOPLE
.
IT LEAVES US WITHOUT FOOD TO
EAT IT LEAVES US WITHOUT CLEAN
DRINKING WATER.
IT LEAVES US WITHOUT BASIC
HYGIENE PRODUCTS THAT WE NEED
TO STAY CLEAN AND HEALTHY.
IT KEEPS BABIES FROM HAVING
DIAPERS AND WIPES AND FORMULA.
COUNTLESS STRANGERS HAVE
APPROACHED ME IN PUBLIC WHILE
I'M WEARING MY CAF TO TELL ME
HOW MANY FAMILY MEMBERS THEY'VE
LOST THIS ESCALATION ALONE
FRIENDS OF MINE WERE PREVENTED
FROM SEEING THEIR DYING MOTHER
BY ISRAELI OCCUPATION FORCES
BEFORE THIS CONFLICT EVER
STARTED.
>> THIS IS A LOCAL ISSUE THIS
IS A HUMAN ISSUE AND ANY
GOVERNMENT THAT WOULD BE
WILLING TO ALLOW THAT KIND
OF THING TO HAPPEN TO ITS
CITIZENS JUST TO SUPPORT
GENOCIDES IN OTHER COUNTRIES IS
NOT WORTH ANY SUPPORT.
ANY RESOLUTION THAT DOES NOT
CALL LOUDLY ISRAELI OCCUPATION
AND ISRAELI ATROCITIES IS NOT
WORTH SUPPORTING PROPOSE A
RESOLUTION THAT CALLS FOR AN
END TO THE SIEGE ON GAZA AND
END TO THE ILLEGAL SETTLEMENTS
IN THE WEST BANK AND TO THE
ISRAELI OCCUPATION AND AN END
TO THE PALESTINIAN GENOCIDE.
THAT IS A RESOLUTION THAT I
WOULD SUPPORT NO ONE HERE OR
ANYWHERE ELSE CAN BULLY OR
INTIMIDATE ME OUT OF THESE
BELIEFS OR ANY OF US OUT
OF THESE BELIEFS.
NOBODY CAN SHAME OR GUILT OR
INSULT US OUT OF THESE BELIEFS.
I AM A HUMAN IN THIS LOCATION
AND I AM A HUMAN IN THIS CITY
AND I STAND STEADFAST RESOLVE
WITH THIS ISSUE.
>> FREE PALESTINE THANK YOU.
NEXT
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
MACKEAN SHAPIRO.
MAYOR, THIS COLUMN IS ONLINE.
>> THANK YOU.
CALL OVER THE PHONE NO RUNNING
AND ZERO FOR ONE PRESS STAR SIX
ON MUTE YOUR PHONE PRESS
SECRETARY GOD MY NAME IS JOHN
MCCAIN.
TRIPPIER.
I'M A LONG TIME ANN ARBOR
RESIDENT AND PROUD ANTI ZIONIST
JEW HERE ALONGSIDE OF OTHER
MEMBERS OF UMID JEWISH VOICES
FOR PEACE AND SUPPORT
INTRODUCING A COMMUNITY
RESOLUTION TO ADDRESS THE
CURRENT GENOCIDE IN GAZA.
>> LIKE MANY OTHERS IN JVP, MY
ANCESTORS CAME TO THIS COUNTRY
AFTER FLEEING THE POGROMS
OF THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE.
I HOPE THIS MEMORY VERY CLOSELY
TO MY HEART AND AS A RESULT I
FIND IT DEEPLY UPSETTING TO
HEAR ZIONISTS INVOKE THEIR
SUFFERING IN ORDER TO JUSTIFY
THE CURRENT GENOCIDE OF GAZA
AND THE SEVENTY FIVE YEAR LONG
OCCUPATION OF PALESTINE.
>> THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF JEWS
THAT LIKEWISE STAND AGAINST THE
GENOCIDE OF GAZA AND ZIONISM AS
AN IDEOLOGY AS YOU HEARD AND
WILL CONTINUE TO HEAR TODAY
JUST AS WE VIEW IT AS AS
MORALLY IMPERATIVE TO OPPOSE
ALL FORMS OF APARTHEID AND
COLONIALISM WHETHER IN SOUTH
AFRICA OR OCCUPIED PALESTINE.
I URGE MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL
TO RECOGNIZE THAT THE STATE
OF ISRAEL DOES NOT REPRESENT ME
AND MANY OTHER OF YOUR JEWISH
CONSTITUENTS BECAUSE I FIND
DEEPLY PAINFUL THAT MY
ANCESTORS SUFFERING HAS BECOME
A POLITICAL TOOL TO JUSTIFY
GENOCIDE AND TO PREVENT OTHERS
FROM SPEAKING OUT AGAINST IT.
>> IF YOU DO NOT TAKE OUR
MOVEMENT TOWARD THE STATE
OF ISRAEL IS BUILT ON VIOLENCE
AGAINST THE INDIGENOUS PEOPLE,
THEN TAKE THE WORD OF ISRAEL'S
FOUNDER DAVID BEN-GURION QUOTE
WHAT IS NECESSARY IS STRONG AND
CRUEL REACTIONS.
>> WE NEED PRECISION.
WE MUST STRIKE MERCILESSLY
WOMEN AND CHILDREN INCLUDED.
THERE IS NO NEED TO DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN GUILTY AND INNOCENT AND
BEN-GURION WROTE US IN HIS
DIARY IN 1948 THE YEAR THE
ETHNIC CLEANSING OF 800
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS FROM
THEIR LAND KNOWN AS THE NAKBA
WHICH IS INAUGURATED THE
FOUNDATION OF ISRAEL PROFESSOR
UNPERFECT A JEWISH HISTORIAN
HIMSELF BORN IN PALESTINE AND
OUTSPOKEN AS AN ANTI ZIONIST
TELLS US THAT INDEED NAKBA
NEVER ENDED BUT CONTINUES TILL
TODAY AS THE STATE OF ISRAEL
ATTEMPTS TO ELIMINATE THE
PALESTINIAN NATION IN
TERRITORY.
AFTER ALL THE DEATH TOLL TODAY
IN GAZA OVER TO TWENTY THOUSAND
DEAD CIVILIANS AS EVEN
SURPASSED THE DEATH TOLL OF I
UNDERSTAND THERE ARE MEMBERS
OF THIS COMMUNITY WHO WOULD
LIKE TO AVOID THIS TOPIC
VIEWING OUR CHOICES AS
IRRELEVANT TO A CONFLICT
HAPPENING SEVERAL THOUSAND
MILES AWAY AND TOO DIVIDED TO
SPEAK WITH MORE THAN THIRTY
SECONDS IT CANNOT BE FURTHER
FROM THE TRUTH IS OUR CITY'S
DUTY TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE
NATIONWIDE MOVEMENT URGING FOR
AN END TO U.S. SUPPORT TO THE
GENOCIDE IN GAZA AND FOR THE
AND U.S. SUPPORT OF THE
OCCUPATION OF PALESTINE
STUDENTS FROM PALESTINE FACING
POLITICAL POLITICAL REPRESSION
FOR EXERCISING THEIR RIGHT TO
FREE SPEECH HAVE BEEN CLEAR
WITH US THAT SPEAKING UP IS THE
MOST IMPORTANT THING WE CAN DO
.
OUR CONTRIBUTION IS USEFUL IN
SUCH URGENT TIMES THAT WE
CANNOT BE AFRAID TO TAKE A
CLEAR STANCE AGAINST GENOCIDE,
APARTHEID AND ETHNIC CLEANSING
.
>> THANK YOU AND FREE PALESTINE
THANK YOU.
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MALIK
THANK YOU.
CALIBRATOR AND THIS CHOLERA'S
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MALIK
ON ZUN.
CALIBRATOR AND THIS CHOLERA'S
THANK YOU
OVER THE PHONE I'M
RUNNING INTO IT TO PRESS OUR
SIX ON MEET YOUR PHONE.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> HOW CAN YOU GUYS HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN OK I WANT MY SUPPORT
.
I AM A CO-FOUNDER OF JEWISH
VOICES WITH PEACE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
MY FAMILY HAS SURVIVED
GENERATIONS OF PERSECUTION FOR
BEING JEWISH AND MY FAMILY HAS
ALSO BUILT THE SETTLEMENTS IN
THE WEST BANK EFFECTIVELY
FORCING PALESTINIANS OUT
OF THEIR HOMES.
AND I WANT TO ADDRESS THE
DELUSION OF DESIGNER WHO HAS
SPOKEN TODAY FOR THE ONLY GRACE
TO THE HOLOCAUST HIGHER THAN
DENYING ITS HISTORY IS
RECOGNIZING IT AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
I DO NOT WANT TO HEAR A WORD
ABOUT ANTI-SEMITISM IF YOU ARE
GOING TO USE YOUR JEWISHNESS TO
SHIELD ISRAEL FROM
ACCOUNTABILITY AS IF
INDISCRIMINATELY MASSACRED
PALESTINIAN CHILDREN AND LET'S
ALSO STOP PRETENDING LIKE WE
HAVE A PROGRESSIVE COLLECTIVE
COUNCIL IN FRONT OF US TODAY.
>> PLEASE LET'S CUT HERE WITH
THAT NARRATIVE.
>> THANK YOU FOR OF COURSE JEWS
AND ARABS ARE LIVING IN FEAR.
THEY BOTH ARE BUT ONLY ONE SIDE
IS AT RISK OF LOSING THEIR JOB
AND THEIR OPPORTUNITY TO LET
THERE BE NO DEBATE OVER WHO IS
BEING TARGETED AND YOU HAVE TO
REJECT THE FORCES OF UNENDING
POWER IMBALANCES.
WELL, THE ONES WHO HAVE TO COME
HERE AND BEG FOR A PROPER
CEASEFIRE RESOLUTION TO BE PUT
ON THE TABLE, THE POWER OF THIS
NATION HAVE BEEN EXPLICITLY
CLEAR THAT AND THAT ISRAEL
PROTESTERS ARE ENEMIES OF THE
STATE.
SOME HAVE EVEN INSINUATED THAT
ENZYTE PROTESTERS SHOULD BE
DEPORTED FOR EXERCISING THE
CONCEPT HAS NO RIGHT TO FREE
ASSEMBLY OF INSTITUTIONAL
WEALTH AND POWER IF ON THE SIDE
OF THE ZIONIST AND WAS NOTHING
ANTI-SEMITIC ABOUT WHAT I JUST
SAID IN FACT I CAN'T THINK
OF ANYTHING MORE ANTI-SEMITIC
THAN UNWAIVERING MACARONIS TO
ZIONISM.
I WILL NOT LISTEN TO THE
DELUSIONS OF ZIONISM WHO CLAIM
TO BE ANTI-RACIST WHILE
BELIEVING THAT THERE COULD BE A
JEWISH MAJORITY STATE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST HUGE MAJORITY
CURETTAGE.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU WOULD
SUPREMACY AS A MATTER OF FACT
IT LOOKS LIKE WHITE THE WHITE
SUPREMACY THAT THOUGHT MY GREAT
UNCLE INTO THE BURG HIMSELF IN
CONCENTRATION CAMP DURING THE
HOLOCAUST IS THE SAME WHITE
SUPREMACY, THE SAME WHITE
PRIMACY THAT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
CONSTRUCTING THE APARTHEID
WALLS SURROUNDING GAZA RIGHT
NOW WE NEED TO BE UNABASHED AND
UNRELENTING IN LEADING THE
CHARGE FOR PALESTINIAN
LIBERATION IF WE ARE COMMITTED
TO JUSTICE NOT ONLY TO BE
GOVERNMENT AND TO ZIONISM BUT
WE NEED TO CALL FOR AN
IMMEDIATE CEASE FIRE.
LAST WEEK I KNOW THAT A PERSON
IN ATTENDANCE TODAY WITH
SUPPORT OF PRO PALESTINIAN
VOICES AND THAT WAS ENTITLED
THE WORD LOOKED LIKE THESE ARE
MADE TO CREATED AND I WILL TAKE
EFFECTIVE MEASURES TO KEEP THE
PALESTINIAN AND THE COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU SO THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAVID
EZEKIEL
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID EZEKIEL
EREIRA.
I I AM A RESIDENT OF WARD FIVE
AND I'M HERE TO VOICE MY
SUPPORT FOR THE COMMUNITY LED
RESOLUTION FOR CEASE FIRE.
I ALSO WANT TO ADD MY VOICE TO
THE GROWING NUMBERS OF ANTI
ZIONIST JEWISH MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY WHO UNDERSTAND THAT
THE STATE OF ISRAEL IS NOT IN
KEEPING WITH OUR VALUES AND
THAT WE MUST SPEAK UP AND
OPPOSE MATERIAL SUPPORT,
EXPLICIT MORAL SUPPORT AND
TACIT SUPPORT BY WAY OF SILENCE
OF THE HORRIFIC GENOCIDE THAT
IS CURRENTLY DEVASTATING GAZA.
THE MONTH SINCE OCTOBER 7TH
HAVE BEEN TRYING IN OUR
COMMUNITIES TO SAY THE LEAST.
I WAS DENIED TIME AND SPACE TO
PROCESS THE FEAR AND SORROW I
FELT FOR PEOPLE THE KIBBUTZIM
INCLUDING MEMBERS OF MY
EXTENDED FAMILY AS THEY WERE
SUBSUMED BY THE CRUSHING
AWARENESS THAT ISRAEL WAS ON
THE PRECIPICE OF ENACTING
UNSPEAKABLE VIOLENCE.
AND AS I'M SURE MANY PEOPLE
HERE CAN RELATE, THE CALAMITY
THAT ENSUED HAS GREATLY
SURPASSED MY WORST NIGHTMARES.
THE LEAST WE CAN DO IS A
COMMUNITY THAT VALUES HUMAN
LIFE AND DIGNITY USED TO CALL
FOR A CEASE FIRE AND OUR LOCAL
COMMUNITIES HAVE TO STEP UP AS
OUR NATIONAL LEVEL DOMESTIC AND
INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVES
AND THE US GOVERNMENT HAVE SO
UTTERLY FAILED TO DO SO IN THIS
REGARD.
IN THE LAST MEETING I HEARD MY
JEWISH IDENTITY MISUSED TO
EQUIVOCATE ON AND OPPOSE OUR
CEASE FIRE SOLUTION AND I TAKE
DEEP EXCEPTION TO THAT.
MY TRADITION HAS TAUGHT ME TO
VALUE PEACE, EQUALITY AND
JUSTICE.
OUR PASSOVER SEDERS INCLUDED
SONG PARAPHRASING THE WORDS
OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH AND
EVERYONE NEATH THEIR FIG TREE
SHALL LIVE IN PEACE AND
UNAFRAID AND INTO PLOWSHARES.
BETA'S SWORDS NATIONS SHALL
LEARN WAR NO MORE PLEASE DO LET
SELECTIVE CONSIDERATION FOR
YOUR JEWISH CONSTITUENTS BE
USED AS AN EXCUSE NOT TO STAND
UP FOR PEACE AND HUMAN DIGNITY.
WE ARE MUCH MORE DIVERSE
COMMUNITIES IN THE NATIONALIST
IDEOLOGY OF ZIONISM WHICH IS
NEITHER TO OUR CULTURAL OR
RELIGIOUS TRADITION WOULD HAVE
YOU BELIEVE.
I HOPE WE CAN DO AWAY WITH THIS
CONFLATION AND STAND UP FOR
WHAT IS RIGHT CEASE FIRE NOW
AND FREE PALESTINE STEPHEN MY
NAME.
YES.
YEAH HI.
MY NAME IS STEVEN ARONSON.
I WAS SO HOPING SO HOPING THAT
THE THREE LIMITED MINUTES THAT
I HAVE I WOULD BE ABLE TO HELP
BRIDGE SOME OF THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKERS AND SOME OF THE WHILE
YOU GUYS WROTE IN YOUR SMOKING
BREAK BY THE WAY, I HOPE YOU
HAD A GOOD BREAK.
YOU DESERVE IT.
YOU WORK HARD THAT SAD JOKE
SORRY THERE ACTUALLY WAS GOOD
INTERACTION.
>> I WAS HOPING TO BE ABLE TO
MAYBE TAP INTO SOME OF MAYBE
SOME GLIMMERS OF SOME HOPE IN
SOME LIGHT IN THE LAST FIVE
SPEAKERS AND THIS IS NOT MEANT
AD HOMINEM GOD FORBID IT'S
ABOUT THE WORDS THE IDEAS.
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IT
IS VERY CLEAR TO EVERYBODY IN
THIS ROOM AND EVERYBODY IS
FOLLOWING THAT THE WAY THE TERM
CEASE FIRE IS BEING USED TODAY
,THE WAY THAT OCCUPATION AND
WE'RE TALKING AND THANK YOU
BOTH FOR DOING MY WORK WHICH I
HOPE NOT TO HAVE TO DO.
>> SEVENTY FIVE YEARS
OF OCCUPATION TO EXISTENCE
OF THE SINGLE STATE SINGLE
JEWISH STATE.
IT MEANS TAKING AWAY MY RIGHT
THE RIGHT OF JEWS TO SELF
DETERMINATION WHICH DOES NOT
MEAN IPSO FACTO THAT THE OTHER
DOESN'T HAVE A RIGHT AS WELL.
THE HISTORY OF THIS CONFLICT
HAS BEEN ONE OF ASYMMETRY.
THE PEEL COMMISSION 1937 1947
PARTITION REPORT NINETEEN 93 95
98 EVEN AS LATE AS 2008 HUGE
HUGE PEACE AGREEMENTS BROKERED
PRIMARILY BY THE UNITED STATES
AND THE WEST WHERE ISRAEL HAS
GIVEN BACK EVERYTHING.
PLUS IN EXCHANGE FOR TRUE PEACE
AND DEMILITARIZE.
>> UNFORTUNATELY THE LEADERS
OF THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE GOD
FORBID BUT THE LEADERS HAVE
NEVER MISSED AN OPPORTUNITY
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY FOR A
COMPROMISE THAT WOULD LEAD US
TO A TRUE AND THANK YOU FOR
REMINDING US OUR TRUE TWO STATE
SOLUTION WHAT OUR FOLKS THIS
EVENING UNFORTUNATELY ARE
TEACHING US IS AT FROM THE
RIVER TO THE SEA IS ABSOLUTELY
ANTITHETICAL TO COMPROMISE AND
A TWO STATE SOLUTION BECAUSE
DOWN THE RIVER TO THE SEA MEANS
THE ERADICATION OF THE STATE
OF ISRAEL.
I I AM FROM THE RIVER ONLY
CLAYPOOLE DROPCAM LET ME TELL
YOU WHAT I REALLY WANTED TO SAY
.
I WANTED TO SAY HERE FOLKS CAN
WE PLEASE ALLOW OUR WONDERFUL
CITY COUNCIL AND OUR WONDERFUL
STAFF IN THE BACK WHO ARE
UNSUNG HEROES GETTING A LOT
OF FLAK AND ALL THE UNSUNG
DIRTY WORK IN SETTING UP ALL
THESE MEETINGS AND TOLERATING
ALL OF US WITH ALL THIS
CRAZINESS THAT WE BRING WITH
US.
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF WE WERE TO
SAY THIS IS WHAT I REALLY WANT
TO SAY?
>> I STILL WANT TO SAY WHAT
WOULD YOU SAY IF WE COULD TAKE
A BREAK?
>> WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF WE TOOK
OUR MASKS OFF, TOOK OUR SLOGANS
AWAY, TOOK OUR STATEMENTS AND
OUR FRIENDS AND OUR PASTURING
OUT OF THE LINE RIGHT OFF THE
STAGE AND MAYBE MET HUMAN THE
COFFEE TO IS THE POSSIBILITY
OF THAT HAPPENING?
PLEASE GOD WHATEVER GOD WE PRAY
OR THANK YOU IS THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S A POSSIBILITY
OF YEAH THANK YOU THIS IS WHAT
I REALLY WANT.
THERE WERE GREAT DISCUSSIONS
DURING THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR ALL THAT YOU DO
AND FOR THANK YOU
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LAUREN
SHARP.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS LAUREN
I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
SHARP.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE JEWISH
I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
COMMUNITY IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE JEWISH
I'M HERE TODAY SPEAKING ON
COMMUNITY IN ANN ARBOR.
BEHALF OF JEWISH VOICE FOR
I'M HERE TODAY SPEAKING ON
PEACE AT THE UNIVERSITY
BEHALF OF JEWISH VOICE FOR
OF MICHIGAN.
PEACE AT THE UNIVERSITY
I'M ADDRESSING THE CITY COUNCIL
OF MICHIGAN.
TODAY TO ASK YOU TO CONSIDER
I'M ADDRESSING THE CITY COUNCIL
THE COMMUNITY RESOLUTION FOR A
TODAY TO ASK YOU TO CONSIDER
CEASE FIRE IN GAZA.
THE COMMUNITY RESOLUTION FOR A
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE CITY
CEASE FIRE IN GAZA.
COUNCIL IS HESITANT ABOUT
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE CITY
ISSUING A STATEMENT ABOUT GAZA
COUNCIL IS HESITANT ABOUT
BECAUSE MANY COUNCIL MEMBERS
ISSUING A STATEMENT ABOUT GAZA
BELIEVE IT DOES NOT FALL UNDER
BECAUSE MANY COUNCIL MEMBERS
MUNICIPAL JURISDICTION.
BELIEVE IT DOES NOT FALL UNDER
I WOULD LIKE THAT TO ADDRESS
MUNICIPAL JURISDICTION.
THAT TODAY.
I WOULD LIKE THAT TO ADDRESS
THERE'S SO MUCH TO BE SAID
THAT TODAY.
ABOUT THE SUFFERING
THERE'S SO MUCH TO BE SAID
OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE IN GAZA
ABOUT THE SUFFERING
AND ACROSS THE WORLD RIGHT NOW
OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE IN GAZA
AND IN MY OPINION THE
AND ACROSS THE WORLD RIGHT NOW
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS SHOULD BE
AND IN MY OPINION THE
REASON ENOUGH TO PASS A CEASE
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS SHOULD BE
FIRE URGENTLY.
REASON ENOUGH TO PASS A CEASE
BUT AS I STATED EARLIER TODAY,
FIRE URGENTLY.
IT IS A PRIVILEGE TO CONCERN
BUT AS I STATED EARLIER TODAY,
OURSELVES WITH THE SAFETY
IT IS A PRIVILEGE TO CONCERN
OF OUR COMMUNITY HERE WHILE SO
OURSELVES WITH THE SAFETY
MANY THOUSANDS ARE DEAD ABROAD.
OF OUR COMMUNITY HERE WHILE SO
BUT TODAY I WOULD LIKE TO USE
MANY THOUSANDS ARE DEAD ABROAD.
MY TIME TO ADDRESS THE WAYS IN
BUT TODAY I WOULD LIKE TO USE
WHICH THE COMMUNITY LED CEASE
MY TIME TO ADDRESS THE WAYS IN
FIRE RESOLUTION WOULD SUPPORT
A
LOCAL JEWISH COMMUNITY IN ANN
ARBOR AND HAS A DUTY TO ITS
JEWISH CITIZENS TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE STATE OF ISRAEL DOES
NOT REPRESENT ALL JEWISH
PEOPLE.
PRESIDENT BIDEN THIS WEEK SAID
THAT THE ONLY SAFE PLACE IN THE
WORLD FOR JEWISH PEOPLE IS
ISRAEL.
IF YOU ACCEPT THE IDEA THAT
DEFENDING THE STATE OF ISRAEL
AT THE COST OF THOUSANDS
OF LIVES IS THE ONLY WAY TO
MAKE JEWISH PEOPLE SAFE, YOU
ARE OFFLOADING THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF DEALING WITH
ANTI-SEMITISM HERE IN MARBUT.
I DESERVE TO FEEL SAFE HERE
THAT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY AS
A COUNCIL.
THE IDEA THAT PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE NEED TO DIE FOR ME AS A
JEWISH PERSON TO FEEL SAFE IN
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN IS ABSURD.
IT WOULD BE LAUGHABLE IF IT
WERE NOT SO VILE THE COMMUNITY
LED CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION FOR A
CEASE ON GAZA CONDEMNS HATE
OF ALL FORMS INCLUDING
ANTI-SEMITISM, ISLAMOPHOBIA AND
ANTI ARAB AND PALESTINIAN
RACISM.
IT CONDEMNS THE ABUSE OF THE
WORD ANTI-SEMITISM TO DESCRIBE
VALID CRITICISM OF THE ISRAELI
GOVERNMENT.
IT PROTECTS FREE SPEECH AND IT
PROTECTS MY RIGHT AS A JEWISH
RELIGIOUS WOMAN WHO BELIEVES
THAT THE EXISTENCE OF THE STATE
OF ISRAEL AT THE EXPENSE
OF EVEN ONE PRECIOUS LIFE IS AN
AFFRONT TO THE TEACHINGS
OF JUDAISM AND THAT NATIONALISM
IS IDOLATRY.
THIS COMMUNITY LED RESOLUTION
IS NOT RADICAL OR
CONTROVERSIAL.
THIS RESOLUTION SIMPLY MOVES A
STATED OPINION OF THE PEOPLE
OF ANN ARBOR TO ACTIVELY AND
MATERIALLY SUPPORTING ISRAEL
AND THE GENOCIDE TO NOT
SUPPORTING EITHER ISRAEL OR
PALESTINE POLITICALLY BUT
INSTEAD FOCUSING ON THE
SECURITY OF OUR CITIZENS AND
THEIR FAMILIES.
GOD CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE IS
NOT CONTROVERSIAL.
JUST THIS WEEK THREE ISRAELI
HOSTAGES TAKEN BY HAMAS WERE
KILLED BECAUSE OF THE
INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING AND
SHOOTING OF THE IDF.
WE TALK ABOUT WANTING TO BRING
THE HOSTAGES HOME.
THAT IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THE
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION.
I DO NOT WANT MY PEOPLE TO DIE.
I DO NOT WANT MY PALESTINIAN
BROTHERS AND SISTERS TODAY AND
I WOULD HOPE THAT MY CITY
COUNCIL COULD ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
I WOULD PUT MY CITY COUNCIL
COULD INDULGE MY RIGHT TO SPEAK
OUT AGAINST MY PEOPLE BEING
KILLED IN MY NAME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS EDWARD CLEAVER
EDWARD TRAGER
?
THANK YOU ALL CITY COUNCIL AND
EVERYONE THERE'S SO MANY GOOD
SPEAKERS THAT I FEEL LIKE I
DON'T REALLY PERHAPS DON'T EVEN
NEED TO SPEAK.
I'LL BE VERY BRIEF THOUGH MEANS
LESS THAN IT'S LIKE A MINUTE
LONG.
THANK YOU.
CITY COUNCIL IS LISTENING THE
VOICES OF PALESTINIANS AND ALL
ALLIES EVEN THROUGH ALL OF THE
DISSONANCE THAT WE'VE HEARD.
>> I WANT TO ESPECIALLY THANK
OUR COUNCIL MEMBERS AS EDWIN
ERICA PRIGS AND THEN SONG FOR
TAKING ON A SEEMINGLY HERCULEAN
TASK OF FORGING A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
I ACTUALLY THINK THAT WE CAN
GET IT DONE.
I REALLY HONESTLY BELIEVE WE
CAN GET A CEASEFIRE DONE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
AS HARD AS WE IMAGINE
ESPECIALLY AFTER HEARING ALL
THE VOICES AND THE HEARTFELT
VOICES THAT WE'VE HEARD TONIGHT
.
SO IN THE MIDST OF SOMETIMES
RAUCOUS DISSENT, THANK YOU FOR
DOING THE RIGHT THING SERIOUSLY
AND I URGE ALL OF YOU ON THE
CITY COUNCIL TO DO A BRAVE
THING AND INTRODUCE AND PASS
OF COURSE A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION CRAFTED WITH ALL THE
COMMUNITY VOICES THAT WE'VE
HEARD AND I THINK THAT'S REALLY
DOABLE A RESOLUTION THAT
AFFIRMS THE SANCTITY OF OUR
LIVES IN GAZA DEMANDS THE
UNFETTERED DELIVERY
OF HUMANITARIAN AID AND THE
RELEASE OF ALL PALESTINIAN
DETAINEES AND OF COURSE ALL
ISRAELI HOSTAGES AS WELL.
RIGHT.
I HONESTLY I PRAY EVERY DAY IN
THIS SEASON OF STRIFE WHERE I
DON'T KNOW NONE OF US ARE GOING
TO CELEBRATE CHRISTMAS THAT ALL
OF US WILL COURAGEOUSLY FULFILL
OUR RESPECTIVE DUTIES WITH
EMPATHY TOWARDS ONE ANOTHER IN
OUR COMMUNITY, IN COMMUNITY AND
IN COMUNE WITH THE SUFFERING
PEOPLE OF THOSE THE SUFFERING
PEOPLE IN THE OCCUPIED
TERRITORIES, THE SUFFERING
PEOPLE IN ALL OF ISRAEL AS WELL
AND ALL OVER THE WORLD IN
PEACE.
SALAN SHALOM.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> THE HONOR OF BEING
CAN YOU
START THE THING AGAIN?
>> I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THINK YOU
IN THE NAME OF GOD THE MERCIFUL
THE COMPASSIONATE GOOD EVENING
TO THE MAYOR AND TO EACH OF THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS AT THE BREAK
LAST THE IN THE LAST MEETING
SOMEONE ACCIDENTLY THOUGHT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS HAD
MENTIONED SOMETHING WHICH WAS
FALSE AND I COMPLAINED ABOUT
THAT AND SO I WAS MISTAKEN.
SO I APOLOGIZE TO COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS AND I WANT TO
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER AISHA
EDWIN AND ERIKA BRIGS AND
WENZHONG FOR FURTHER WORKING
FOR THE RESOLUTION AND FOR
WHOEVER ELSE IS SUPPORTING
THEIR MPHASIS.
I'M AN EPIDEMIOLOGIST.
I WAS AT THE EPIDEMIC
INTELLIGENCE SERVICE OFFICER IN
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
WHERE I WAS ALSO LIEUTENANT
COMMANDER IN THE US PUBLIC
HEALTH SERVICE HUMAN RIGHTS
WATCH TODAY HAS SAID HAS
WRITTEN A THING SAYING THAT THE
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT IS USING
STARVATION OF CIVILIANS AS A
METHOD OF WARFARE IN THE GAZA
STRIP WHICH IS A WAR CRIME.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS HAVE MADE
PUBLIC STATEMENTS EXPRESSING
THEIR AIM TO DEPRIVE CIVILIANS
IN GAZA OF FOOD, WATER AND FUEL
STATEMENTS REFLECTED IN ISRAELI
FORCES, MILITARY OPERATIONS.
THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT SHOULD
NOT ATTACK ABJECTNESS SERVICE A
RIVAL OF THE CIVILIAN
POPULATION LIFT ITS BLOCKADE
OF THE GAZA STRIP WHICH
OF MEANS FOOD AND MEDICINE AND
EVERYTHING CIVILIANS NEED AND
RESTORE ELECTRICITY AND WATER
WHICH ISRAEL HAS CUT OFF.
>> SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
IT'S EXTREMELY IMPORTANT THAT
WHEN YOU ALRIGHT YOUR
RESOLUTION THAT THE US HAS BEEN
TELLING ISRAEL TO SEND
HUMANITARIAN AID BUT IT HASN'T
BEEN SO WE HAVE TO BE VERY
SPECIFIC.
YOU HAVE TO SAY THAT
HUMANITARIAN AID MUST BE AT THE
LEVEL THAT THE UN SAYS IS
NECESSARY AND THAT ALL THE
BORDER CROSSINGS HAVE TO BE
OPEN, ESPECIALLY KEREM SHALOM
WHICH THE UN SAYS IS THE ONLY
BORDER CROSSING WITH THE HEAVY
DUTY AID TRUCKS ARE ABLE TO GO
AND THE AID HAS TO GO TO EVERY
SINGLE CIVILIAN IN GAZA.
ISRAEL IS NOT ALLOWING IT TO GO
TO NORTH GAZA WITH THOSE TWO
HUNDRED FORTY FIVE THOUSAND
PEOPLE IN GAZA.
I KNOW OF PEOPLE WHO ARE STUCK
WHO WHO SAID THAT THEIR PARENTS
HAVE STARVED TO DEATH.
SO WHAT WE HAVE TO DO TO DO
THIS RIGHT AWAY AND PLEASE
CHECK THE UNITED NATIONS HAS
STATED THAT HALF THE PEOPLE IN
GAZA ARE STARVING.
CAN YOU IMAGINE IF EVERY SINGLE
MAN, WOMAN AND CHILD RIGHT NOW
IN DETROIT IS STARVING BECAUSE
OF OUR TAX DOLLARS?
THEY'RE STARVING AND YOU KNOW
THE AMOUNT OF PEOPLE MURDERED
BY THE BOMBS, THE CIVILIANS,
THE CIVILIANS ARE NOT THE
COLLATERAL DAMAGE.
HAMAS IS THE COLLATERAL DAMAGE.
THERE'S MORE JOURNALISTS KILLED
IN HAMAS.
THERE'S MORE UN OFFICIALS
KILLED THAN HAMAS.
JUST IMAGINE EVERY SINGLE
PERSON IN YPSILANTI IS MURDERED
MORE THAN THAT HAS HAPPENED IN
GAZA AND 50000 THAT'S WAY MORE
THAN COUNTY'S POPULATION HAVE
BEEN WOUNDED AND MANY OF THEM
HAVE CRITICAL LIFE INJURIES.
THERE'S NO MEDICINE.
THERE'S 50000 WOMEN WHO ARE
PREGNANT AND THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GREGORY
MEKOUAR AND I HAVE A HARD TIME
SEEING BEHIND THE BEHIND THE
SPEAKER FOLKS WITH SIGNS BEHIND
THE SPEAKER COULD KEEP THEM
BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL AND ALSO
OUT OF THE AISLES.
>> THANK YOU OR GOOD EVENING.
CITY COUNCIL DIDN'T REALIZE
THERE WOULD BE SUCH A LATE
EVENING BUT WITH SO MANY OF US
TALKING ABOUT A VERY IMPORTANT
TOPIC, I GUESS IT ONLY SUFFICES
THAT WE WOULD BE TALKING UNTIL
DEAD OF NIGHT IN THE EARLY
MORNING.
ALSO MEMBERS BRIGS EDWYN AND SO
ON.
I WOULD LIKE TO START OF COURSE
BY THANKING YOU FOR
COSPONSORING A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
I AM SORRY TO SEE IT PULLED BUT
CONVERSELY GLAD TO SEE IT
PULLED BECAUSE LANGUAGE DOES
STILL NEED TO BE ADDRESSED.
MY NAME IS GREG MCCLAIR.
I'M FROM THE 3RD WARD SO
EVERYONE I ESPECIALLY
APPRECIATE YOU DIRECTLY
SUPPORTING MY DESIRES DIRECTLY
USING YOUR VOICE TO AMPLIFY
MINE.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I
APPRECIATE YOUR PERSONAL
SUPPORT FOR A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION BUT I WOULD ALSO
APPRECIATE YOUR MATERIAL
SUPPORT FOR A CEASE HIGH
RESOLUTION ONE THAT HAS BEEN
ADOPTED BY THE COMMUNITY.
AND I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO JUST
ADDRESS YOUR COMMENTS EARLIER.
I BELIEVE THAT THE CONTINUED
FRAMING OF THIS GENOCIDE AS THE
ISRAEL HAMAS WAR IS
DISINGENUOUS AND HARMFUL.
THIS ALSO ADDRESSES THE VIOLENT
RAIDS THAT THE ISRAELI
OCCUPATION FORCES HAVE
CONTINUED TO CONDUCT IN THE
WEST BANK AND THE MANY
OF BULLDOZER'S THAT THEY HAVE
USED TO CONTINUE THE SIEGE
HOSPITALS.
>> I BELIEVE THAT IT IS
IMPORTANT TO GET LANGUAGE
CORRECT.
I AM AN ENGLISH AND MATH
TEACHER.
THE LAST TIME THAT I SPOKE WAS
DECEMBER FOR I WAS TWO WEEKS
AGO ON DECEMBER 5TH, DECEMBER
SIX.
DR
O'REAR A POET SCHOLAR AND
TEACHER OF SHAKESPEARE AND
LITERATURE WAS KILLED IN AN
ISRAELI AIRSTRIKE IN HIS HOME
ALONG WITH HIS FAMILY.
I WILL ATTEMPT TO READ IN ONE
MINUTE THAT I HAVE LEFT THIS
POEM IF I MUST DIE CERTAINLY
NOW THAT HE HAS IF I MUST DIE
YOU MUST LIVE TO TELL MY STORY,
TO SELL MY THINGS, TO BUY A
PIECE OF CLOTH AND SOME
STRENGTH'S MAKE IT WILL MAKE IT
WHITE WITH A LONG TAIL SO THAT
A CHILD SOMEWHERE IN GAZA WILL
LOOK IN HEAVEN IN THE EYE
AWAITING HIS DAD WHO LEFT IN A
BLAZE AND DID NO ONE FAREWELL
NOT EVEN TO HIS FLESH, EVEN TO
HIMSELF SEES THE KIND MY YOU
MADE FLYING UP ABOVE AND THANKS
FOR A MOMENT AN ANGEL IS THERE
BRINGING BACK LOVE IF I MUST
DIE LET IT BRING HOPE.
LET IT BE A TALE
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOJANG
SARVA NO NO NO I'M THANK YOU
FOR COMING AND SO MANY WELL
SPOKEN PEOPLE HAVE BASICALLY
DESCRIBED THE GENOCIDE THAT
ISRAEL IS CONDUCTING AGAINST
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE TONIGHT.
THERE IS NO NEED FOR ME TO GO
THROUGH ALL OF THAT.
THE SITUATION IS HORRIFIC.
PEOPLE ARE STARVING TO DEATH
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS THEY'VE BEEN
DEMOLISHED DESTROYED.
FOR THOSE OF YOU TOO WHO HAVE
GREAT HOPES FOR THIS CITY
COUNCIL, I WANT TO SAY A FEW
WORDS SO YOU CAN FIGURE OUT HOW
HARD YOU HAVE TO FIGHT THEM
BACK BECAUSE YOU ARE UNFAMILIAR
WITH THEM AND I HAVE KNOWN THIS
CITY COUNCIL FOR OVER TWENTY
YEARS.
MAYOR TAYLOR WHO SITS HERE, HE
TELLS YOU THAT HE CARES ABOUT
PALESTINIAN LIVES.
HE DOES NOT IN FACT HE GOES TO
ZIONIST EVENTS AND HE PAYS FOR
THE STATE OF ISRAEL.
YES.
THAT GENOCIDAL RACIST STATE
OF ISRAEL.
HE PRAYS FOR THEM ON THIS CITY
COUNCIL.
WE HAVE OTHER PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SHOWN THEIR SUPPORT FOR ZIONISM
AND NEVER ONE WORD TO PROTECT
PALESTINIAN LIVES.
I'M ONLY SAYING THESE THINGS SO
THE YOUNG PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE
CAN FIGURE OUT THAT THEY NEED
TO PUSH A LOT HARDER TO MAKE
THIS MUCH DO ONE THING FOR
PALESTINIANS FOR 20 YEARS
THEY'VE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PASS THE SIMPLEST RESOLUTION WE
ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
THEY HAVE NOT THEY SHOULD HAVE
AND IF THEY HAD DONE THAT THERE
WOULD BE SOME MEASURE
OF PROTECTION FOR PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE.
THEY NEVER DID GET ON TOP
OF THAT THIS LAST ROUND
OF GENOCIDE IN PALESTINE FOR
SEVENTY TWO DAYS FOR A SOLID
MONTH WE WERE COMING HERE AND
THIS THIS BUNCH SAID NOT ONE
THING, NEVER SAID CEASE FIRE,
NEVER SAID STOP THE CARNAGE,
NEVER.
THEY HAD EVERY OPPORTUNITY.
THEY ONLY DID IT BECAUSE THERE
WAS IMMENSE PRESSURE APPLIED BY
YOU GUYS AND THEY FINALLY DID
IT SOME HARD STUFF WHICH HAS TO
BE CHANGED BUT IT TELLS YOU
THAT YOU HAVE THE POWER TO
FORCE THEM AND THEY WILL DO IT
ONLY IF YOU APPLY SEVERE
PRESSURE BECAUSE THEIR
ALLEGIANCE IS TO ZIONISTS IN
THIS TOWN.
THEIR ALLEGIANCE IS TO MONEY IN
THIS TOWN AND THEY DO NOT CARE
IF THEY TELL THEY CARE ABOUT
THE ENVIRONMENT.
THEY DON'T IF THEY TELL YOU
THEY CARE ABOUT DIDN'T THEY BIG
KINDS OF FANCY HOUSING FOR THE
RICH, NOTHING FOR THE POOR.
EVERYBODY GOES LIVE SOMEWHERE
ELSE.
SO I WANT YOU TO KNOW THE
ESSENCE OF THESE PEOPLE BECAUSE
UNLESS YOU KNOW WHO THEY ARE
YOU CANNOT FIGHT THEM, ARE YOU
NOT TO FIGHT THEM BECAUSE WE
NEED TO PALESTINE WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT
DYING ANYMORE.
THESE PEOPLE HAVE NOT THEY DO
NOT CARE IF EVERY CHILD IN
PALESTINE DIES.
IT IS OUR JOB TO PUNISH THEM
AND FORCE THEM TO EMBRACE THEIR
HUMANITY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARCHA
.
I RESPECTED COUNCIL.
I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING PREPARED
AND SOME OF YOU LOOK A LITTLE
BIT BORED AND KIND
OF DOWNTRODDEN.
>> SO I'M GOING TO BRING IT
BACK TO SOMETHING YOU GUYS ARE
VERY FAMILIAR WITH AND THAT'S
BLOWER'S.
>> SO JUST TO POINT OUT, I MEAN
WE'VE BEEN TO QUITE A FEW
COUNCIL MEETINGS.
YOU GUYS ARE PROBABLY FAMILIAR
WITH A LOT OF THE FACES THAT
ARE HERE AND WE'VE BEEN HEARING
ABOUT LEAF BLOWERS ALMOST EVERY
SINGLE TIME ABOUT DIFFERENT
DECIBELS OF GAS VERSUS ELECTRIC
AND NO ALL WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT, YOU GUYS HAVEN'T BEEN
ABLE TO SOLVE A SIMPLE FLOOR
DISPUTE.
WE DON'T NEED YOU TO SOLVE
PEACE IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
WE DON'T NEED YOU TO SAY IN A
RESOLUTION WHETHER THERE SHOULD
BE A ONE STATE TO STATE THREE
STATE FOUR STATE SOLUTION.
WE DON'T NEED THOSE BITS.
WE NEED A CEASE FIRE.
WE NEED HUMANITARIAN AID.
AND IF YOU WANT SPECIFICS, THE
COMMUNITY GIVE YOU A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
WHAT SPECIFICS WITH ACCREDITED
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS WITH
ACCREDITED UNITED NATIONS
REPORTS FOR ALL THE STATISTICS
THAT YOU WOULD EVER NEED.
WE DID CALL FOR THE RELEASE
OF ALL HOSTAGES, NOT JUST
ISRAELI ONES BUT ALSO THE
PALESTINIAN ONES.
>> SO I DO UNDERSTAND I DON'T
ENVY YOUR POSITION.
>> IT IS DIFFICULT BUT THAT'S
WHAT WE ELECTED YOU TO DO.
>> WHAT LEADERSHIP THAT SHOWS
IS IN TIMES OF TURMOIL WHEN
YOUR COMMUNITY TURNS TO YOU,
HOW DO YOU REACT WHEN YOUR
COMMUNITY COMES TO YOU HAS BEEN
CONSISTENTLY COMING AND HAS
BEEN CONSISTENTLY SHOWING UP.
HOW DO YOU REACT?
I HEARD SOMEONE SAY EARLIER AND
I DON'T REMEMBER WHICH COUNCIL
MEMBER IT WAS THAT YOU'VE BEEN
WORKING THE COMMUNITY THE
COMMUNITY DID PUT FORTH A
RESOLUTION BUT THE COMMUNITY
DIDN'T REALLY HEAR BACK.
WHETHER YOU LIKE THOSE POINTS,
WHETHER YOU DIDN'T WHAT
COMMUNITY EXACTLY WAS IT THAT
YOU WERE WORKING WITH?
BECAUSE THE RESOLUTION THAT WE
PUT FORTH WAS VETTED BY OUR
LGBTQ ALLIES.
I WAS IN THE GEORGOPOULOS PEACE
PEACE ALLIES IN THE PALESTINIAN
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE LOCAL TO
US SO GOOD.
>> WHAT COMMUNITY WAS IT THAT
YOU WORKED WITH BECAUSE YOU
KNOW US YOU KNOW THE VOICES
THAT ARE HERE, YOU KNOW THE
VOICES THAT KEEP SPEAKING UP
AND THE VOICES HAVE BEEN
REACHING OUT TO YOU VIA EMAIL
AND WE DO APPRECIATE YOU FOR
TRYING TO STAY ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF HISTORY.
>> BUT AGAIN, THIS IS A REALLY
DIFFICULT ISSUE IF YOU NEED
STATS THERE IN THE RESOLUTION
AND WE'RE MORE THAN HAPPY TO GO
OVER THEM WITH YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SO FAR
I THANK YOU FOR GIVING
ME THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK.
I FIRST WANT TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBERS AISHA, ERIKA AND
COUNCILMAN BERLIN FOR
SPONSORING THE CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
ALTHOUGH IT WAS FLAWED AND
UNFORTUNATELY IT WAS WITHDRAWN,
IT WAS DEFINITELY A POSITIVE
STEP FORWARD.
I DO THINK WITH SOME
MODIFICATIONS IT COULD BE A
REALLY MEANINGFUL RESOLUTION.
I URGE THE COUNCIL TO PROMPTLY
INTRODUCE A NEW MORE BALANCED
RESOLUTION.
THE FACT IS THAT WE REALLY
CAN'T BE SILENT BY STANDARD
STANDARDS TO THE ONGOING
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS THAT'S
GOING ON IN GAZA.
THE GENOCIDE AND YOU'VE ALREADY
HEARD FROM SO MANY COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TODAY THE GENOCIDE IS
HAPPENING ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE WORLD FACILITATED BY OUR
TAXPAYER THEIR MONEY.
BUT IT IS DIRECTLY AFFECTING
PEOPLE WHO ARE LIVING HERE
ENSURING THE SAFETY OF ALL OUR
NEIGHBORS REGARDLESS OF THEIR
BACKGROUNDS SHOULD BE THE
COUNCIL'S TOP PRIORITY.
>> ANTI-SEMITISM AND
ISLAMOPHOBIA ARE RISING LOCALLY
AND NATIONALLY.
>> YET AT A RECENT HOUSE
HEARING THE ONLY CHOSE TO FOCUS
ON ANTI-SEMITISM.
I'M A PROFESSOR AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THE MESSAGING THAT HAS BEEN
COMING FROM MY EMPLOYER IS
TOTALLY TONE DEAF AND IT'S IN
RELATION TO ITS OWN COMMITMENT
TO THE DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND
INCLUSION.
CONGRESSWOMAN IS QUICK TO POINT
OUT TO EXPRESS OUR OUTRAGE AT
THE ASSAULT OF ISRAELI WOMEN.
BUT IT'S MOSTLY PASSIVE WHEN
PALESTINIAN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
ARE FAULTED.
THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY RAISED
CONCERNS ABOUT TWO CHRISTIANS
WHO DIED IN GAZA BUT YET IT HAS
NOT RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT THE
TENS AND THOUSANDS OF ARABS AND
MUSLIMS WHO HAVE DIED FOR TOO
MUCH FOR THE PAST TWO MONTHS.
I THINK YOU GET THE POINT I CAN
GO ON AND ON THE CURRENT THE
CURRENT RHETORIC AND THE
BEHAVIOR IS BLATANTLY
DISCRIMINATORY AND HUMANIZING
AND IT NEEDS TO STOP.
I DIDN'T WANT TO I RECENTLY
PLACED A YUXIANG BEHIND MY
HOUSE WHICH SIMPLY SAID SAVE
THE CHILDREN ON A PALESTINIAN
FLAG TWO WEEKS AGO THAT THAT
YARD SIGN HAD DISAPPEARED.
THIS IS AN ORDER.
AS A PARENT OF TWO CHILDREN ALL
BELOW THE AGE OF 15, TWO
OF THEM WERE HERE EARLIER TODAY
AND NOW THEY'VE GONE HOME.
>> OF COURSE THINK ABOUT THIS.
THEY'VE SEEN EVERYTHING THAT'S
HAPPENING AROUND THEM.
HOW SHOULD THEY WHAT WHAT
SHOULD THEY TAKE FROM THE
SILENCE OF THIS COUNCIL?
WHAT SHOULD THEY TAKE ABOUT THE
TONE DEAFNESS OF OUR ELECTED
POLITICIANS AT THE STATE AT THE
NATIONAL LEVEL?
THE FACT IS THAT OUR POLITICAL
SYSTEM IS TOTALLY DYSFUNCTIONAL
.
THAT'S WHY I'VE TURNED TO THE
COUNCIL.
I'M IMPLORING YOU TO CALL OUT
THE DISCRIMINANT RHETORIC, THE
DOUBLE SPEAK IN THE MEDIA AND
THE POLITICAL DISCOURSE AND TO
SUPPORT THE CEASEFIRE
RESOLUTION MUTATOR I'M GOING TO
DISAGREE WITH SOMETHING THAT
YOU SAID EARLIER.
YOU SAID THAT THINGS ARE
COMPLICATED.
I JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND.
SINCE WHEN A GENOCIDE AND
INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING,
INDISCRIMINATE BOMBING
OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAS
BECOME SOMETHING COMPLICATED
THAT IT SHOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT SHOULD BE VERY EASY TO
CALL OUT OF PASSING SUCH A
RESOLUTION WOULD REAFFIRM YOUR
COMMITMENT TO THE WELL-BEING
OF ALL RESIDENTS IN OUR
COMMUNITY TO TRUTH AND TO
JUSTICE.
DOING SO DOES NOT MAKE
PALESTINIAN OR ANTI-SEMITIC.
IT SIMPLY MAKES YOU THINK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RAVEN
.
MY NAME IS RAVEN.
I'M A JOURNALIST FOR GROUND
COVER NEWS AND A REPRESENTATIVE
OF MISSION GENERAL DEFENSE
COMMITTEE.
I'M HERE ONCE AGAIN CALLING FOR
YOUR SUPPORT OF A RESOLUTION
FOR A CEASE FIRE IN PALESTINE
EXPLICITLY CONDEMNS THE ACTIONS
OF ISRAEL SINCE OCTOBER SEVEN
NEARLY TWO NEARLY TWO SINCE
OCTOBER 7TH NEARLY TWENTY
THOUSAND CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN
MURDERED BY IDF FORCES WITH
EIGHT THOUSAND OF THOSE MARTYRS
BEING CHILDREN.
ISRAEL CONTINUES TO INSTRUCT
GAZANS TO MOVE FURTHER SOUTH
GAZA IS THE SIZE OF DETROIT
WITH A POPULATION OF OVER TWO
MILLION.
THERE IS NO SPACE LEFT FOR
THESE PEOPLE TO RETREAT TO EVEN
THE SUPPOSEDLY SAFE ZONES OUR
CURRENT ARE CONTINUALLY
ATTACKED AND BOMBED.
THERE ARE NO SAFE ZONES IN
GAZA.
THESE ARE NOT TERRORISTS, NOT
SOLDIERS BUT INNOCENT CIVILIANS
WHO ARE BEING ATTACKED.
ISRAELI FORCES HAVE SHOWN NO
MERCY IN THEIR BOMBING CAMPAIGN
WITH THE USE OF WHITE
PHOSPHORUS WHICH IS CONSIDERED
A WAR CRIME UNDER THE GENEVA
CONVENTION WHICH ISRAEL IS A
SIGN OF ACCORDING TO HER,
ACCORDING TO A REPORT BY THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, A CHILD IS
MURDERED IN GAZA EVERY TEN
MINUTES.
THAT MEANS BY THE END OF A CITY
COUNCIL MEETING OVER 30
CHILDREN WILL HAVE BEEN
MURDERED TO DEMONSTRATE THE
RESULTS OF THIS VIOLENCE, I
WILL NOW PLAY A VIDEO FROM A
HOSPITAL INSIDE GAZA
.
DO YOU HEAR THEIR CRIES EVERY
DAY?
DO YOU HEAR THAT ANGUISH WHEN
YOU DON'T CALL FOR A CEASE
FIRE?
THIS IS WHY YOU'RE SUPPORTING
THE GENOCIDE OF CHILDREN.
SO WHEN YOU PASS SO WHEN WILL
YOU PASS THE RESOLUTION?
WHEN WILL YOU DIVEST?
WHY IS IT SO HARD FOR YOU TO
CONDEMN GENOCIDE WHEN IT SHOWS
ITSELF AS CLEAR AS DAY?
IT IS EASY FOR YOU TO CONDEMN
THE INVASION AND OCCUPATION
OF UKRAINE BUT WHY NOT GAZA?
>> WHY CAN'T YOU CONDEMN RUSSIA
BUT NOT ISRAEL?
>> I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO REMIND
THOSE WHO ARE QUICK TO CALL
THIS MOVEMENT ANTI SEMITIC AND
THIS IS A FIGHT AGAINST THAT.
THIS IS NOT A FIGHT AGAINST
JUDAISM.
THIS IS A FIGHT AGAINST ZIONISM
AND IMPERIALISM.
I CONDEMN THE ACTS
OF ANTI-SEMITIC VIOLENCE THAT
HAVE BEEN PERPETRATED AGAINST
THE JEWISH COMMUNITY.
THERE IS NO THERE'S NO EXCUSE
FOR HATE CRIMES WHEN FUTURE
GENERATIONS LOOK BACK ON THIS
DAY, WILL THEY BE PROUD OF OUR
ACTION OR THEY'LL BE DISGUSTED
NEGLIGENCE ALREADY THE CITIES
OF YPSILANTI, DETROIT,
HAMTRAMCK, DEARBORN, DEARBORN
HEIGHTS, CANTON AND MANY OTHERS
ACROSS THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
HAVE HAD PASSED RESOLUTION
CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE IN
PALESTINE.
I HOPE THAT I HOPE ANN ARBOR
WILL JOIN THESE COMMUNITIES AND
BEING ON THE RIGHT SIDE
OF HISTORY MAY ALLAH PROTECT
THE PEOPLE OF GAZA AND MADE
THIS GENOCIDE THE RESULT
PEACEFULLY PEACEFULLY FROM THE
RIVER TO THE SEA.
PALESTINE WILL BE FREE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SHEILA
CIMA
SARALEGUI.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER NO.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DEQI
ALEXANDER
AS AN AMERICAN JEW.
I HAVE LISTENED TO THE HUNDREDS
OF PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY MANY
WHO SIMULTANEOUSLY APPEAR TO
LIVE IN MULTIPLE CITIES IN AT
THE SAME TIME ATTEND AND SPEAK
CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
MOST ARE NOT SPEAKING ONLY
FOLLOWERS EXCEPT PERHAPS ONE
REASON IT'S AN EQUITY AND THEN
SOMETHING BEYOND THIS COUNCIL'S
PURVIEW THE ISRAEL GAZA WAR
MYSELF INCLUDED MANY OF US WERE
NOT ALL ON THE JEWISH SIDE
ARGUE THAT CITY COUNCILS ARE
NOT THE PLACE TO MAKE
RESOLUTIONS ON GEOPOLITICAL
ISSUES.
THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY THAT IS
STILL MY OUR STANCE.
BUT COUNCILS ARE BEING
EXPLOITED AND USED TO
PEACOCKING PONTIFICATE, RUN RUN
OF THE MILL JEWISH HATE WHAT
STARTED AS A REQUEST FOR A
CEASE FIRE RIGHTLY SO HAS
BECOME AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DELEGITIMIZE ME.
THIS JEWISH COMMUNITY OR OUR
ANCESTORS AND OUR HISTORY AND
THAT TO ME IS ANTI-SEMITISM.
MANY VOICES HERE ARE USING THIS
MOMENT TO AMPLIFY THE STANCE
THAT AND I QUOTE THIS WAR DID
NOT BEGIN OCTOBER SEVEN BUT
BEGAN SEVENTY FIVE YEARS AGO
AND QUOTE WHEN THE LAND WAS
PARTITIONED BY THE UNITED
NATIONS PERHAPS THEY ARE RIGHT
THIS MOMENT IN TIME DID NOT
BEGIN ON OCTOBER 7TH.
PERHAPS IT BEGAN IN THE
NINETEEN FORTIES AND FIFTIES.
SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND ISRAELI
JEWS WERE FORCED TO LEAVE THEIR
HOMES AND LANDS IN ARAB
COUNTRIES EGYPT, YEMEN AND IRAN
AND IRAQ OR BEGAN WHEN SIX
MILLION JEWS IN THE 1930S AND
40S BASICALLY THE ENTIRE
POPULATION OF THE STATE
OF WISCONSIN WERE BURNED AND
BANISHED FROM THE EARTH OR
BEGAN IN 1991.
MORE THAN 1100 PROGRAMS OVER
ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND JEWS IN
PRESENT DAY UKRAINE BEGAN
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS THOUSANDS
OF JEWS VOTE IN RUSSIA WERE
BURNED TO THE GROUND, BEGAN
EVEN IN THE CRUSADES OR WITH
THE EGYPTIANS FIRST
CRYSTALLOGRAPHER YEARS IN
DESERT WITHOUT ANY HUMIDITY
DESPITE OR POMADE IF YOU MEET A
JEW ANY PLACE IN THE WORLD WE
BELIEVE MEMORY.
I'M A PROFESSOR AND TEACHER AND
WHAT I KNOW TO BE TRUE IS THAT
IF YOU WANT EVERYONE IN THE
CLASSROOM TO FEEL HEARD TO
LEARN YOU DON'T ACQUIESCE TO
THOSE THAT YELL THE LOUDEST
TAKE UP THE MOST SPACE DISRUPT
INTERRUPT BECAUSE THAT WILL
SIMPLY SILENCE THOSE WHO DON'T
PERFORM THAT WAY AND HAS WHAT
HAS BEEN HAPPENING HERE AND
THAT SINCE OCTOBER 7TH FOR 15
TO 20 YEARS THAT SILENCE IS THE
WALLS HERE THAT IS MOST EVIDENT
AND THUS AS A CITY COUNCIL I
THINK YOUR ROLE SHOULD BE
REALLY TO CULTIVATE A SPACE FOR
US CITIZENS TO LISTEN AND LEARN
AND TO FIND SOME RESOLVE
BETWEEN AND AMONG EACH OTHER
JEWS AND MUSLIMS, ARABS,
PALESTINIANS, ISRAELI PEOPLE
HERE AND OUR ASK THIS NIGHT AND
EVERY NIGHT GOING FORWARD IS
QUITE SIMPLY TO ENSURE THAT
THOSE WHO LIVE AND WORK HERE
FEEL SAFE, SECURE AND THAT WE
BELONG AND THAT IS A RESOLUTION
WE CAN GET FULLY BEHIND.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KRISTEN
EUROPEANIZED.
IF YOU WERE YEAH I KNOW I KNOW
IT IT'S NOT TOO LATE FOR SURE,
SIR.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER KRISTEN
HAYDEN MARRIED THIS CALLER IS
ON ZUMAYA FOR YOU AND I
APPRECIATE BEING ABLE TO SPEAK
TONIGHT IN FAVOR OF THE COUNCIL
USING THE COMMUNITY CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION PUT FORTH ON
DECEMBER 4TH.
>> OUR VERY LARGE COUNCIL
MEMBER EDWIN AND SONG ARE
WORKING TO PUT FORTH THE
RESOLUTION AND I REALLY WANT TO
ENSURE THAT THE COMMUNITY THAT
IS IN THIS ROOM IS PART
OF BUILDING THE WORDING OF THE
WILL BE IMPACTED DIRECTLY.
I WANT TO THANK THE ORIGINAL
COMMUNITY CEASE FIRE WHICH PUT
FORTH AN ADDITIONAL 4000 PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN KILLED IN PALESTINE
INCLUDING FIVE JOURNALISTS
AMONG OTHER NUMBERS I COULD ADD
AS WELL CONTINUED DESTRUCTION
OF HEALTH CARE AND CIVILIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THIS INFORMATION CAN BE UPDATED
FOR YOU WHILE YOU WORK ON YOUR
RESOLUTION.
>> I'M SPEAKING IN SOLIDARITY
COMMUNITY MEMBERS OF ALL
STRIPES HERE TODAY TO SEE THE
NEED FOR A LOCAL CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION TO BOTH SUPPORT
SAFETY FOR RESIDENTS AND TO
EXPRESS TO OUR LAWMAKERS THAT
THEY NEED TO PUSH HARDER FOR A
CEASE FIRE AT THE INTERNATIONAL
LEVEL.
FOR INSTANCE, ALTHOUGH
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL HAS
CALLED FOR A CEASE FIRE, SHE
HAS NOT SIGNED ON TO THE HOUSE
RESOLUTION 76.
FURTHERMORE, HATE INCIDENTS AS
DESCRIBED IN RECENT PUBLIC
COMMENTS FROM A LARGE NUMBER
OF RESIDENTS INDICATE THE NEED
FOR THIS RESOLUTION AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO
THOSE MOST AFFECTED INCLUDING
SCHOOLCHILDREN AND STUDENTS AT
THE UNIVERSITY WHO FACE ANTI
ARAB HOMOPHOBIC, ANTI-SEMITIC
AND RACIST ATTACK.
THIS MATTERS TO ME BECAUSE MY
COMMUNITY IS HURTING AND I
INVITE THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE
NOT CHOSEN TO SPONSOR OR
SUPPORT A CEASE FIRE TO
RECONSIDER HOW YOU COULD BETTER
STAND UP FOR THOSE YOU
REPRESENT.
AND I WANT TO AGAIN THANK
COUNCIL MEMBERS LONG FOR OR TO
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOSH
WINSTON
TO I'D LIKE TO EXPRESS
MY GRATITUDE TO THE CITY
COUNCIL EVEN THOUGH I WOULD
PREFER A NEW RESOLUTION ON THE
ISRAEL MOSQUE WHERE I'M
GRATEFUL TO HAVE A COUNCIL TO
HAVE COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO MADE
AN INCREDIBLE EFFORT TO FIND A
MIDDLE GROUND SINCE THIS WAR
BEGAN THE RHETORIC BEING
EMPLOYED HAS LED US TO AN US
VERSUS THEM SENTIMENT A BLACK
AND WHITE BINARY THAT FLATTENS
US ALL INTO LABELS.
THEY SAY YOU'RE EITHER FOR OR
AGAINST A CEASE FIRE.
YOU ARE EITHER PRO ISRAEL OR
PRO PALESTINIAN.
OCTOBER 7TH WAS A GENOCIDE
THOUGH THE SUBSEQUENT WAR IS A
GENOCIDE AND THERE'S NO
SURPRISE HERE THAT'S THE WAY
OF THE WORLD THESE DAYS WHEN
MOVEMENTS ARE DESIGNED FOR
HASHTAG VIEWS AND LIKES THE
SIMPLER THE MESSAGE THE BETTER
WHEN WE CAN REDUCE A COMPLEX
PROBLEM INTO SOUNDBITES WE FEEL
GOOD ABOUT OURSELVES BUT
HAVEN'T CHANGED A THING ABOUT
THE WORLD ONE DAY THIS CONFLICT
WILL BE OVER.
ONE DAY GOD WILLING THERE WILL
BE A PALESTINIAN STATE STANDING
SIDE BY SIDE NEXT TO A STATE
OF ISRAEL BOTH PEOPLES DESERVE
SELF-DETERMINATION
.
I HOPE AND PRAY AND EVEN WORK
TOWARD THAT POSSIBILITY IN MY
PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE
THE PALESTINIANS HAVE NOWHERE
ELSE TO GO AND NEITHER DO THE
ISRAELIS.
WE HOWEVER DON'T LIVE IN ISRAEL
OR PALESTINE.
WE LIVE HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND
WHEN THIS CONFLICT IS OVER WE
WILL STILL NEED TO LIVE
TOGETHER.
>> AND SO I JUST REMIND ALL
OF US AND CALL ON ALL OF US
REGARDLESS OF OUR RELIGIOUS
BACKGROUND OR ETHNIC IDENTITY
TO BE MINDFUL OF OUR WORDS TO
NOT TO DIMINISH THE PAIN
OF OTHERS, TO SEE THE HUMAN
BEINGS STANDING BEFORE YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RIMA
ICENI.
SO GOOD MORNING EVERYONE.
YEAH, IT'S PAST MIDNIGHT.
>> I AM PALESTINIAN AND I'VE
LIVED IN FOR 22 YEARS AND I'M
A WARD FIVE RESIDENT.
I DO I THINK I REALLY ECHO WHAT
MANY BEFORE ME HAVE SAID BUT
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE
WITH ME.
>> I DO WANT TO THANK
EXPLICITLY COUNCIL MEMBERS
GHAZI ADWAN THEN SONG AND
BREAKS FOR DOING THE RIGHT
THING.
I'M PUTTING FORTH OR DRAFTING
THE CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION
FARZAT IT WAS LONG OVERDUE BUT
VERY WELCOME.
I AM DISAPPOINTED IT HAS BEEN
PULLED AND I DO HOPE AND
ALLOWED YOU TO REINTRODUCE AND
PASS IT FOR HUMANITARIAN
REASONS IF FOR NO OTHER A CEASE
FIRE AND AN IMMEDIATE ONE I
HOPE IS EVIDENT.
THE OTHER THING I WANT TO SAY
MIGHT BE PERCEIVED AS SILLY BUT
IT'S REALLY A SIMPLE FACT
PALESTINIANS ARE NOT NUMBERS I
REALLY WANT TO RESIST SPEAKING
ABOUT US AND STATISTICS.
WE ARE PEOPLE STORIED PEOPLE
JUST LIKE ANYONE ELSE MOTHERS,
DAUGHTERS, FATHERS, SONS,
NEIGHBORS ETC. I COULD GO ON
BUT I WON'T AND I ACTUALLY WANT
TO THANK GREALY MCCRAW, THE
PERSON BEFORE ME WHO CHOSE TO
HONOR THE LIFE OF ARAFAT.
I HEAR THAT REMARKABLE POET WHO
HAS CUT DOWN ON DECEMBER 8TH I
THOUGHT ABOUT HIM A LOT AND HE
WAS A FATHER OF SIX, WAS QUITE
A BELOVED TEACHER AND HE LOVED
TO TEACH SHAKESPEARE AND HE WAS
ASSASSINATED BY TARGET BY AN
ISRAELI BOMB THAT WAS FUNDED
WITH TAXPAYER DOLLARS AND HE
WAS ALSO KILLED MISSION IN
QUOTATION MARKS SUCCESSFUL WITH
HIS SISTER, BROTHER AND FOUR
NIECES WHO WERE SHELTERING WITH
HIM.
>> SO I REALLY DO WANT TO TURN
TO PAY HOMAGE TO HIM.
I AM NOT POSTURING.
I'M NOT BEING DOGMATIC BUT I
REALLY WANT TO VOICE HIM AGAIN
A BEAUTIFUL, BEAUTIFUL HUMAN
BEING WHO DIED TOO YOUNG.
>> IF I MUST DIE YOU MUST LIVE
TO TELL MY STORY TO SELL MY
THINGS, TO BUY A PIECE OF CLOTH
AND SOME STRINGS MAKE WHITE
WITH A LONG TAIL SO THAT A
CHILD SOMEWHERE IN THE LOOKING
HEAVEN IN THE EYE AWAITING HIS
DAD LEFT IN A BLAZE AND NO ONE
FOR A WHILE NOT EVEN HIS FLESH
NOT EVEN TO HIMSELF SEE THE
KITE SEES THE KITE MY CONTACT
YOU MADE FLYING UP ABOVE AND
THINKS FOR A MOMENT AN ANGEL IS
THERE BRINGING BACK LOVE IF I
MUST DIE LET IT BRING HOPE LET
IT BE A TALE AND THANK YOU
EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU.
AND THE SPEAKER OF HIS SOPHI
OPPOSING
THIS CALLERS ON ZOM
CALL OVER THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN SIX FOUR FOUR GO AHEAD.
>> GOOD EVENING.
CAN I BE HERE?
YES, YOU CAN AVENUE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY MEMBER.
I LOVE THE PEOPLE OF NPR BUT I
DON'T UNDERSTAND THE CITY
COUNCIL AND ARTHUR HAS MADE A
LITANY OF EXCUSES FOR WHY THEY
CANNOT OPPOSE OR TAX A CEASE
FIRE FOR GOD IF ONE PILOT AND
ANOTHER ARE MURDERED EVERYONE
WOULD CRY BECAUSE CHILDREN WERE
MURDERED IN ANN ARBOR IN SCHOOL
SHOOTING GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
HERE WOULD READ EVERY IF 100
CHILDREN WERE KILLED IN ANN
ARBOR IT WOULD BE UNIMAGINABLE
.
YES AND ALL BUT SAID NOTHING
WHEN THESE CHILDREN WERE
MURDERED IN GARLAND WHEN ONE
THE CHILDREN WERE MURDERED WHEN
FIVE HUNDRED CHILDREN WERE
MURDERED, WHEN ONE THOUSAND
CHILDREN WERE MURDERED TWO
THOUSAND THREE THOUSAND FIVE
THOUSAND SEVEN THOUSAND EIGHTY
THOUSAND THERE ARE NEARLY TEN
THOUSAND CHILDREN MURDERED IN
GAZA MURDERED BY AMERICAN BORN
WITH AMERICAN FUNDING AND
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
22000 PEOPLE.
TEN THOUSAND CHILDREN PAY BY AN
HOUR.
HOW DID YOU WALK 10000 CHILDREN
MURDERED AND ONE DAY BOMBING BY
THE LITERALLY NO REASON NO
POSSIBLE EXPLANATION READ THE
THIRD TO NOT SAY BUT THIS
BOMBING CEASEFIRE IT IS NOT
ANTISENSE OR PARTIZAN.
THE CALL FOR THE BOMBING
STOPPED AND THOUSANDS CHILDREN
ARE CHILDREN BY CALLING OUT I
CALLED MY BROTHER WILBRAHAM AND
BY FROM FOAMING AT THE FROM THE
WHITE PHOSPHORUS AND WITH NO
RIGHT AND HAD CHILDREN WITH
NOTHING CRYING THAT THEY WANT
THEIR LAND BACK.
>> CALL ME I'LL TELL YOU IS
REAL.
>> IS THIS A NIGHTMARE?
I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE A
CONSCIENCE.
I WANT TO HELP THAT YOU HAVE
YOUR HEART.
I WANT TO HOPE THAT YOU WILL
CALL A CEASE FIRE BEFORE YOU
LOOK YOURSELF IN THE MIRROR AND
REALIZE THAT YOU KNOW I
IMPLICITLY SUPPORTING THE
MURDER OF THOUSAND UPON
THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BEING
PULMAN
.
I SPEAK FOR MYSELF AND NO ONE
ELSE I DON'T SPEAK FOR THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
I CAN'T I NEVER HAVE BUT THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE HAVE SPOKEN
FOR THEMSELVES.
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE HAVE
GIVEN THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTION FOR CEASE
FIRE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
RIGHT HERE IN THIS ROOM HAVE
GIVEN THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTION WHY IN A HOW
IS IT SO HARD FOR YOU TO PASS A
SIMPLE RESOLUTION?
ALL IT SAYS IS STOP BOMBING
PALESTINIANS TO DEATH EN MASSE.
THAT'S ALL IT SAYS AND STOP
HANDING ISRAEL MORE MONEY TO
BOMB THE PALESTINIANS TO DEATH.
THAT'S ALL IT SAYS THIS CITY
COUNCIL IS IS WEIGHTED DOWN
WITH P.H. DEGREES AND LAW
DEGREES AND THEY AND THEY WEEP
AND SAY I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
DO.
YOU YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO.
YOU KNOW WHAT THE YOU PASSED
THE REVOLUTION BY TURNING YOUR
HUMANITY CARD OR TURNING YOUR
HUMANITY CARD BECAUSE YOU'RE
NOT EVEN HUMAN IF YOU CANNOT
SEE RIGHT YOU ARE THROWING
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS
OF PALESTINIANS WITH YOUR TAX
MONEY IF YOUR POLITICAL SUPPORT
YOU ARE NOT.
WHY IS IT SO HARD FOR YOU TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT IN THE IS
WRONG WITH YOU?
>> WHAT IN THE IS WRONG WITH
YOU?
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TRACY TAGER
.
TRACY TAGER WACEK THANK YOU
TO
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SARAH
EMIRATES
.
I'M SARAH.
I LIVE ON UNSEEDED WAMI LAND
COLONIAL KNOWN AS IPSI.
I WORK HERE ON UNSEEDED
POTTAWATOMIE OTTOWA OJIBWAY AND
WYANDOT LAND THAT WE CALL IN
ARBER.
I AM TERRIFIED OF PUBLIC
SPEAKING AND I AM MORE
TERRIFIED OF BEING SILENT ABOUT
GENOCIDE.
I ALSO CAN'T HELP BUT RECOGNIZE
WHAT A PRIVILEGE IT IS TO
BE.
>> THIS IS WHAT'S MOST
TERRIFYING FOR ME TODAY I'M
HERE BECAUSE OF THE GENOCIDE
AND ALSO TO BE PART OF THE
INCREDIBLE COMMUNITY OF PEOPLE
WHO HAVE BEEN SPEAKING OUT TO
CALL FOR A CEASE FIRE AND TO
INVITE YOU ALL A CITY TO DO THE
SAME.
I ATTENDED THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN SCHOOL OF SOCIAL
WORK AND NOW WORK AS A
THERAPIST PRIMARILY FOCUSING ON
TRAUMA AND ATTACHMENT.
A MASSIVE PART OF TRAUMA WORK
IS EXPLORING EXPERIENCES THAT
FUNDAMENTALLY OVERWHELM THE
PERSON'S NERVOUS SYSTEM,
INABILITY TO COPE AND
DEVASTATINGLY COMMON EXPERIENCE
FOR THOMAS SURVIVORS AND ALL
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN IMPACTED
BY EVENTS AND INTERACTIONS IN
THEIR LIVES IS BEING
INVALIDATED.
I'M TOLD OR EXPERIENCED DOESN'T
MATTER.
THEY ARE SILENCED AND DISMISSED
OFTENTIMES THE SILENCE ITSELF
IS A BIG PART OF WHAT OUR
SESSIONS EXPLORE AND WHAT HAVE
SHAPED ANY NUMBER
OF INTERNALIZED MESSAGES THAT
DISCONNECT THE PERSON FROM
EXISTING FULLY AND SEE
THEMSELVES AS WORTHY OF ESTEEM,
CARE AND CONNECTION.
WE ARE DROWNING IN TRAUMA AND
THE SILENCE IS DEVASTATING.
WE ARE WATCHING WAR CRIMES
INCLUDING COLLECTIVE
PUNISHMENT, WHITE PHOSPHORUS
BOMBING, INDISCRIMINATE
DESTRUCTION OF RELIGIOUS SITES,
USE OF HUMAN SHIELDS, VIOLATION
OF MEDICAL NEUTRALITY,
EXECUTING SURRENDERED PEOPLE
ABUSE AND HUMILIATION.
WE KNOW TWO POINT TWO MILLION
PEOPLE WERE CUT OFF FROM WATER
AND FOOD IN A SINGLE DAY
BECAUSE ISRAEL HAD THE POWER TO
DO THAT EVEN IF WE DO NOT SAY
ANYTHING WE ARE FINANCING THESE
AND THIS GENOCIDE AND HAS
CONTRIBUTED OVER ONE POINT
EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS AND IT'S
CONTRIBUTED OVER THREE HUNDRED
AND FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS OVER
TWO POINT ONE MILLION DOLLARS
EXCLUDING YOU OF INVESTMENTS
HAVE BEEN STOLEN FROM A
COMMUNITY OF RESOURCES THAT
NEED IT MOST HERE IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY OCTOBER 7TH.
>> IT'S AN ATROCITY AND IT WAS
DEVASTATING TO SEE SO MANY
PEOPLE KILLED.
THERE ARE NO WORDS THAT CAN
CAPTURE THE EXTENT OF THE
MULTIPLE DAILY ATROCITIES
PALESTINIANS HAVE FACED SINCE
OCTOBER 7TH NOR THE SEVENTY
FIVE YEARS BEFORE THAT.
I'M ASKING ANYONE UPSET BY
OCTOBER 7TH TO CONTINUE TO BE
UPSET ABOUT THE EXACT SAME
THING FOR THE PALESTINIANS ON
OCTOBER 8TH, 9TH, 10TH, 11TH,
12TH AND EVERY DAY UNTIL A
CEASE FIRE IS CALLED AND WE AS
US STOP SENDING WEAPONS AND
ASKING YOU TO BE UPSET THAT
ISRAELI CITIZENS WERE BOMBED
INDISCRIMINATE AND SHOT UP BY
ISRAELI OCCUPATION FORCES ON
THE SEVEN ISRAELI HOSTAGES
CONTINUE TO BE KILLED BY IAF
WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE SHOT BY
SNIPERS OR CRUSHED TO DEATH IN
RUBBLE FROM INDISCRIMINATE
BOMBING.
I'M ASKING YOU TO UNDERSTAND
PALESTINIANS ARE ALSO VERY REAL
HUMAN BEINGS DESERVING OF THE
CARE SAFETY CONNECTION AND
BELONGING WE ALL STRIVE FOR AND
ASKING US CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
WITH THE POWER AND PRIVILEGE TO
DO SO TO STOP LETTING THE
FUNDING WE SEND ISRAEL BE THE
ONLY VOICE WE ARE USING.
PLEASE CALL FOR CEASE FIRE IS
THE VERY LEAST WE CAN DO AND
HONESTLY SOMETHING THAT
HAPPENED MONTHS AGO OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS SAID
FIRST TIMER
THANK YOU.
THANK THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
BECAUSE THEY HAD BEEN IN BRIGS
FOR FOUR FOUR RESOLUTION AND
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG FOR
CO-SPONSOR BRING IT.
I DID WANT TO DO MINE JUST IN
THE LAST FEW DAYS OF HIS
GENOCIDE JUST IN THE LAST FEW
DAYS ISRAELI BULLDOZERS BURIED
ALIVE, WOUNDED PATIENTS.
CIVILIANS ON THE GROUND HAVE
COME AT ONE HOSPITAL.
JUST JUST IMAGINE JUST IN YOUR
MIND JUST BURIED ALIVE IN
BULLDOZERS.
WE REMEMBER RACHEL CORRIE
OBVIOUSLY WAS SIMILARLY
BULLDOZED.
>> ISRAEL KILLED PATIENTS,
REFUGEES IN SHIFA AND OTHER
HOSPITALS.
ISRAEL KILLED CHILDREN,
CIVILIANS EXECUTION STYLE IN
SHODDIER ABU GHAZALA SCHOOL
WEST OF THE JABALYA REFUGEE
CAMP IS THE ISRAELI ARMY KILLED
THREE ISRAELI HOSTAGES WHO ARE
WAVING A WHITE FLAG.
ISRAELI ARMY KILLED A MOTHER
AND DAUGHTER IN THE HOLY FAMILY
CHURCH IN GAZA.
ISRAELI ARMY MASSACRED
CIVILIANS IN REFUGEE CAMPS.
ISRAEL IS HINDERING
HUMANITARIAN AID BY NOT LETTING
TRUCKS ENTER TO THE RAFAH
BORDER.
PEOPLE ARE DYING FROM HUNGER.
IMAGINE PEOPLE DYING FROM
HUNGER WHILE SUPPLIES ARE
WAITING FOR THE BORDER TO
ENTER.
>> THIS IS JUST THE LAST FEW.
>> SO JUST IN THE LAST FEW DAYS
ISRAEL HAS TARGETED CHILDREN,
CIVILIANS IN REFUGEE CAMPS,
SCHOOL CHURCH KILLING HOSTAGES
WANTING SAFETY, KILLING PEOPLE,
FORCED HUNGER IN TWO MONTHS
ISRAEL KILLED MORE THAN
NINETEEN THOUSAND CIVILIANS
INCLUDING MORE THAN 8000
CHILDREN.
>> FOUR THOUSAND PEOPLE ARE
ARBITRARILY DETAINED IN ISRAELI
JAILS.
THE ACCOUNTS OF MISTREATMENT
OF PALESTINIAN DETAINEES ARE
APPALLING ANNEXATION AND FORCED
DISPLACEMENT CONTINUE.
THIS IS THE REALITY OF GENOCIDE
AND EVERY DAY EVERY DAY THERE
IS NO CEASE FIRE.
MORE LIVES ARE LOST.
WE CANNOT TOLERATE THE HUNGRY
AND THE CHILDREN.
WE CANNOT TOLERATE THEM AS A
PLURALITY OF DEMOCRATS IN THIS
COUNTRY CALL FOR A CEASE FIRE,
OUR STATE AND FEDERAL LEADERS
REFUSE TO HEAR US CALL THEM ON
OUR BEHALF.
PLEASE JOIN A CHORUS OF LOCAL
LEADERS LOCAL VOICES IN
MICHIGAN SO THE STATE AND
FEDERAL LEADERS THAT REFUSE TO
HEAR VILLAGERS WILL PAY
ATTENTION, CALL FOR A CEASE
FIRE, UNIMPEDED HUMANITARIAN
AID IN GAZA, RELEASE OF ALL
HOSTAGES IN ISRAEL AND GAZA
PROTECTION FREEDOM OF SPEECH,
FREEDOM OF SPEECH HERE AT HOME
COMBATING ISLAMOPHOBIA AND
ANTI-SEMITISM.
WE ARE CALLING YOU TO STAND UP
FOR JUSTICE.
THIS IS A LOCAL ISSUE BECAUSE
IT AFFECTS OUR COMMUNITY CALL
SO THAT OUR STATE AND FELLOW
LEADERS HERE LOUD AND CLEAR.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHAEL
MUELLER WE BELIEVE IS ON THE
ZUM COLLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER AND TWO FIVE FOUR GO
AHEAD AND JOIN
BE HERE IN
SUPPORT OF THE RESOLUTION
CALLING FOR PERMANENT CEASE
FIRE ENFORCEMENT.
MANY PALESTINIAN MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY HAVE SHARED THEIR
EXPERIENCE OF THE PAST AND
CONTEXT BEHIND THIS RESOLUTION
SINCE OCTOBER 7TH, THE
SO-CALLED STATE OF ISRAEL HAS
MURDERED OVER TWENTY THOUSAND
PALESTINIANS AND ETHNICALLY
CLEANSED OVER A MILLION
DOCUMENTS FROM THEIR HOME.
THIS IS AN ACT OF GENOCIDE
UNPRECEDENTED IN MODERN TIMES.
THAT IS ONLY THE LATEST
INJUSTICE AGAINST PALESTINIANS
WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED AN ONGOING
THERE IS NO SINGLE LAND IN 1948
IN RESPONSE TO THESE
ATROCITIES.
>> THE PALESTINIANS HAVE AN
ABSOLUTE RIGHT TO RESIST THE
ZIONIST REGIME.
THEY CONTINUE TO RESIST DECADE
AFTER DECADE.
NONE OF US HAS A MORAL RIGHT TO
CONDEMN PALESTINIAN RESISTANCE
WHILE MANY OF US IN THE US LIKE
TO THINK THAT WE'RE WILLING TO
STAND FOR JUSTICE, THERE HAS
BEEN NO JUSTICE IN THE US ROLE
IN THE GENOCIDE OF PALESTINIAN
JOE BIDEN AND MOST ELECTED
POLITICIANS ACTIVELY SUPPORT
THIS GENOCIDE AND THE ZIONIST
OCCUPATION FORCES WITH OUR TAX
DOLLARS.
THAT'S MONEY THAT SHOULD BE
GOING TO GOOD SCHOOLS HOUSING
HEALTH CARE PREPARATION NOT
BOMBING CHILDREN.
DEATH OF ISRAEL INCLUDING
PROCEEDED WITH CONTINUING TO BE
LABELED ANTI-SEMITIC AND BETTER
AS A JEWISH CENTER ZIONIST I
STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT
ANTI-ISRAEL IS NOT.
>> IN FACT TERRORISM ACTIVISTS
ARE BEING TARGETED EVEN AT U.N.
ON NOVEMBER 17TH OVER 50 HOURS
FROM AT LEAST TEN JURISDICTIONS
INCLUDING UNTV AND 8D WERE
BROUGHT IN TO ENACT RACIST
POLICE VIOLENCE AGAINST
PEACEFUL STUDENT PROTESTERS
CALLING ON IRAN.
ISRAEL'S GENOCIDE.
>> I PERSONALLY WAS IN A GROUP
OF OVER FORTY STUDENTS WHO WERE
ARRESTED.
>> NOW IN SPITE OF THIS
PRESSURE, MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
ARE SPEAKING OUT AND SUPPORTING
PALESTINE.
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY HAVE
CALLED FOR YOU OUR CITY COUNCIL
TO PASS A RESOLUTION DEMANDING
A BARE MINIMUM A PERMANENT
CEASE FIRE.
>> MORE AND MORE CITIES LIKE
ATLANTA ARE FINALLY ALSO TAKING
A STEP NOW IT SEEMS WE FINALLY
MADE THE CHOICE TO CONTINUE TO
STOP THE VIOLENCE AND REFUSING
JUSTICE AS OUR TOP STORIES
MURDER PALESTINIANS EVERY
SINGLE DAY.
YOUR TEARS AND YOUR WORDS THAT
YOU'RE LISTENING THAT YOU
EMPHASIZE AND SO ON.
THESE ARE MEANINGLESS UNTIL YOU
PASS THE COMMUNITY RESOLUTION
WE KNOW THAT JUSTICE WILL
PREVAIL WITH OR WITHOUT YOU AND
WE WILL SEE PALESTINIAN RETURN
TO A LIBERATED PALESTINE FROM
THE RIVER TO THE SEA.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM CAMP
THERE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY COUNT
THE NUMBER OF SONGS TAKEN BY
COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED